I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was
taught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen
many afflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having
been highly favored of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a
great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God,
therefore I make a record of my proceedings in my days.
Yea, I make a record in the language of my father, which
consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the
Egyptians.
And I know that the record which I make is true; and I make it
with mine own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge.
For it came to pass in the commencement of the first year of
the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, (my father, Lehi, having
dwelt at Jerusalem in all his days); and in that same year there
came many prophets, prophesying unto the people that they must
repent, or the great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.
Wherefore it came to pass that my father, Lehi, as he went
forth prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in
behalf of his people.
And it came to pass as he prayed unto the Lord, there came a
pillar of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and
heard much; and because of the things which he saw and heard he
did quake and tremble exceedingly.
And it came to pass that he returned to his own house at
Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed, being overcome with
the Spirit and the things which he had seen.
And being thus overcome with the Spirit, he was carried away
in a vision, even that he saw the heavens open, and he thought he
saw God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless
concourses of angels in the attitude of singing and praising
their God.
And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the
midst of heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of
the sun at noon-day.
And he also saw twelve others following him, and their
brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.
And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth;
and the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him
a book, and bade him that he should read.
And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the
Spirit of the Lord.
And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen
thine abominations! Yea, and many things did my father read
concerning Jerusalem--that it should be destroyed, and the
inhabitants thereof; many should perish by the sword, and many
should be carried away captive into Babylon.
And it came to pass that when my father had read and seen
many great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto
the Lord; such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God
Almighty! Thy throne is high in the heavens, and thy power, and
goodness, and mercy are over all the inhabitants of the earth,
and, because thou art merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who
come unto thee that they shall perish!
And after this manner was the language of my father in the
praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole
heart was filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea,
which the Lord had shown unto him.
And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things
which my father hath written, for he hath written many things
which he saw in visions and in dreams; and he also hath written
many things which he prophesied and spake unto his children, of
which I shall not make a full account.
But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days.
Behold, I make an abridgment of the record of my father, upon
plates which I have made with mine own hands; wherefore, after I
have abridged the record of my father then will I make an account
of mine own life.
Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord
had shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea,
concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth
among the people, and began to prophesy and to declare unto them
concerning the things which he had both seen and heard.
And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because of the
things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of
their wickedness and their abominations; and he testified that
the things which he saw and heard, and also the things which he
read in the book, manifested plainly of the coming of the
Messiah, and also the redemption of the world.
And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with
him; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had cast
out, and stoned, and slain; and they also sought his life, that
they might take it away. But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto
you that the tender mercies of the Lord are over all those whom
he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them mighty even
unto the power of deliverance.
For behold, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my
father, yea, even in a dream, and said unto him: Blessed art thou
Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because
thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things
which I commanded thee, behold, they seek to take away thy life.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in
a dream, that he should take his family and depart into the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the
Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.
And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And
he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold,
and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with
him, save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and
departed into the wilderness.
And he came down by the borders near the shore of the Red Sea;
and he traveled in the wilderness in the borders which are nearer
the Red Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his family,
which consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, who
were Laman, Lemuel, and Sam.
And it came to pass that when he had traveled three days in
the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley by the side of a
river of water.
And it came to pass that he built an altar of stones, and made
an offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto the Lord our God.
And it came to pass that he called the name of the river,
Laman, and it emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the
borders near the mouth thereof.
And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied
into the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O
that thou mightest be like unto this river, continually running
into the fountain of all righteousness!
And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like
unto this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping
the commandments of the Lord!
Now this he spake because of the stiffneckedness of Laman and
Lemuel; for behold they did murmur in many things against their
father, because he was a visionary man, and had led them out of
the land of Jerusalem, to leave the land of their inheritance,
and their gold, and their silver, and their precious things, to
perish in the wilderness. And this they said he had done because
of the foolish imaginations of his heart.
And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur
against their father. And they did murmur because they knew not
the dealings of that God who had created them.
Neither did they believe that Jerusalem, that great city,
could be destroyed according to the words of the prophets. And
they were like unto the Jews who were at Jerusalem, who sought to
take away the life of my father.
And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in the
valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled with the Spirit, until
their frames did shake before him. And he did confound them,
that they durst not utter against him; wherefore, they did as he
commanded them.
And my father dwelt in a tent.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceedingly young,
nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great
desires to know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry
unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my
heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken by
my father; wherefore, I did not rebel against him like unto my
brothers.
And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him the things which
the Lord had manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit. And it came
to pass that he believed in my words.
But, behold, Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my
words; and being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts
I cried unto the Lord for them.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying:
Blessed art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith, for thou hast
sought me diligently, with lowliness of heart.
And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall
prosper, and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a land
which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above
all other lands.
And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee, they
shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.
And inasmuch as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shalt
be made a ruler and a teacher over thy brethren.
For behold, in that day that they shall rebel against me, I
will curse them even with a sore curse, and they shall have no
power over thy seed except they shall rebel against me also.
And if it so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a
scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in the ways of
remembrance.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from speaking with
the Lord, to the tent of my father.
And it came to pass that he spake unto me, saying: Behold I
have dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me
that thou and thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem.
For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a
genealogy of my forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of
brass.
Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy
brothers should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records,
and bring them down hither into the wilderness.
And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing
which I have required of them; but behold I have not required it
of them, but it is a commandment of the Lord.
Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord,
because thou hast not murmured.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will
go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know
that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men,
save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the
thing which he commandeth them.
And it came to pass that when my father had heard these words
he was exceedingly glad, for he knew that I had been blessed of
the Lord.
And I, Nephi, and my brethren took our journey in the
wilderness, with our tents, to go up to the land of Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when we had gone up to the land of
Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult one with another.
And we cast lots--who of us should go in unto the house of
Laban. And it came to pass that the lot fell upon Laman; and
Laman went in unto the house of Laban, and he talked with him as
he sat in his house.
And he desired of Laban the records which were engraven upon
the plates of brass, which contained the genealogy of my father.
And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and thrust
him out from his presence; and he would not that he should have
the records. Wherefore, he said unto him: Behold thou art a
robber, and I will slay thee.
But Laman fled out of his presence, and told the things which
Laban had done, unto us. And we began to be exceedingly
sorrowful, and my brethren were about to return unto my father in
the wilderness.
But behold I said unto them that: As the Lord liveth, and as
we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness
until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath
commanded us.
Wherefore, let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of
the Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of our father's
inheritance, for behold he left gold and silver, and all manner
of riches. And all this he hath done because of the commandments
of the Lord.
For he knew that Jerusalem must be destroyed, because of the
wickedness of the people.
For behold, they have rejected the words of the prophets.
Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after he hath
been commanded to flee out of the land, behold, he would also
perish. Wherefore, it must needs be that he flee out of the
land.
And behold, it is wisdom in God that we should obtain these
records, that we may preserve unto our children the language of
our fathers;
And also that we may preserve unto them the words which have
been spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have
been delivered unto them by the Spirit and power of God, since
the world began, even down unto this present time.
And it came to pass that after this manner of language did I
persuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God.
And it came to pass that we went down to the land of our
inheritance, and we did gather together our gold, and our silver,
and our precious things.
And after we had gathered these things together, we went up
again unto the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and desired
him that he would give unto us the records which were engraven
upon the plates of brass, for which we would give unto him our
gold, and our silver, and all our precious things.
And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, and
that it was exceedingly great, he did lust after it, insomuch
that he thrust us out, and sent his servants to slay us, that he
might obtain our property.
And it came to pass that we did flee before the servants of
Laban, and we were obliged to leave behind our property, and it
fell into the hands of Laban.
And it came to pass that we fled into the wilderness, and the
servants of Laban did not overtake us, and we hid ourselves in
the cavity of a rock.
And it came to pass that Laman was angry with me, and also
with my father; and also was Lemuel, for he hearkened unto the
words of Laman. Wherefore Laman and Lemuel did speak many hard
words unto us, their younger brothers, and they did smite us even
with a rod.
And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold, an
angel of the Lord came and stood before them, and he spake unto
them, saying: Why do ye smite your younger brother with a rod?
Know ye not that the Lord hath chosen him to be a ruler over you,
and this because of your iniquities? Behold ye shall go up to
Jerusalem again, and the Lord will deliver Laban into your hands.
And after the angel had spoken unto us, he departed.
And after the angel had departed, Laman and Lemuel again
began to murmur, saying: How is it possible that the Lord will
deliver Laban into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he
can command fifty, yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?
And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying: Let
us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping
the commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all
the earth, then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea,
or even than his tens of thousands?
Therefore let us go up; let us be strong like unto Moses; for
he truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided
hither and thither, and our fathers came through, out of
captivity, on dry ground, and the armies of Pharaoh did follow
and were drowned in the waters of the Red Sea.
Now behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an
angel hath spoken unto you; wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go
up; the Lord is able to deliver us, even as our fathers, and to
destroy Laban, even as the Egyptians.
Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth, and
did still continue to murmur; nevertheless they did follow me up
until we came without the walls of Jerusalem.
And it was by night; and I caused that they should hide
themselves without the walls. And after they had hid themselves,
I, Nephi, crept into the city and went forth towards the house of
Laban.
And I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things
which I should do.
Nevertheless I went forth, and as I came near unto the house
of Laban I beheld a man, and he had fallen to the earth before
me, for he was drunken with wine.
And when I came to him I found that it was Laban.
And I beheld his sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath
thereof; and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the
workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine, and I saw that the
blade thereof was of the most precious steel.
And it came to pass that I was constrained by the Spirit that
I should kill Laban; but I said in my heart: Never at any time
have I shed the blood of man. And I shrunk and would that I
might not slay him.
And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the Lord hath
delivered him into thy hands. Yea, and I also knew that he had
sought to take away mine own life; yea, and he would not hearken
unto the commandments of the Lord; and he also had taken away our
property.
And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me again: Slay
him, for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands;
Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to bring forth his
righteous purposes. It is better that one man should perish than
that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief.
And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remembered
the words of the Lord which he spake unto me in the wilderness,
saying that: Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments,
they shall prosper in the land of promise.
Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the
commandments of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they
should have the law.
And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of
brass.
And again, I knew that the Lord had delivered Laban into my
hands for this cause--that I might obtain the records according
to his commandments.
Therefore I did obey the voice of the Spirit, and took Laban
by the hair of the head, and I smote off his head with his own
sword.
And after I had smitten off his head with his own sword, I
took the garments of Laban and put them upon mine own body; yea,
even every whit; and I did gird on his armor about my loins.
And after I had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of
Laban. And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban,
behold, I saw the servant of Laban who had the keys of the
treasury. And I commanded him in the voice of Laban, that he
should go with me into the treasury.
And he supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the
garments and also the sword girded about my loins.
And he spake unto me concerning the elders of the Jews, he
knowing that his master, Laban, had been out by night among them.
And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban.
And I also spake unto him that I should carry the engravings,
which were upon the plates of brass, to my elder brethren, who
were without the walls.
And I also bade him that he should follow me.
And he, supposing that I spake of the brethren of the church,
and that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he
did follow me.
And he spake unto me many times concerning the elders of the
Jews, as I went forth unto my brethren, who were without the
walls.
And it came to pass that when Laman saw me he was exceedingly
frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And they fled from before
my presence; for they supposed it was Laban, and that he had
slain me and had sought to take away their lives also.
And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did
hear me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.
And it came to pass that when the servant of Laban beheld my
brethren he began to tremble, and was about to flee from before
me and return to the city of Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also
having received much strength of the Lord, therefore I did seize
upon the servant of Laban, and held him, that he should not flee.
And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would
hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I live, even so
that if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare his life.
And I spake unto him, even with an oath, that he need not
fear; that he should be a free man like unto us if he would go
down in the wilderness with us.
And I also spake unto him, saying: Surely the Lord hath
commanded us to do this thing; and shall we not be diligent in
keeping the commandments of the Lord? Therefore, if thou wilt go
down into the wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with
us.
And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words
which I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he
promised that he would go down into the wilderness unto our
father. Yea, and he also made an oath unto us that he would
tarry with us from that time forth.
Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this
cause, that the Jews might not know concerning our flight into
the wilderness, lest they should pursue us and destroy us.
And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an oath unto us,
our fears did cease concerning him.
And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass and the
servant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and journeyed
unto the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that after we had come down into the
wilderness unto our father, behold, he was filled with joy, and
also my mother, Sariah, was exceedingly glad, for she truly had
mourned because of us.
For she had supposed that we had perished in the wilderness;
and she also had complained against my father, telling him that
he was a visionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth
from the land of our inheritance, and my sons are no more, and we
perish in the wilderness.
And after this manner of language had my mother complained
against my father.
And it had come to pass that my father spake unto her, saying:
I know that I am a visionary man; for if I had not seen the
things of God in a vision I should not have known the goodness of
God, but had tarried at Jerusalem, and had perished with my
brethren.
But behold, I have obtained a land of promise, in the which
things I do rejoice; yea, and I know that the Lord will deliver
my sons out of the hands of Laban, and bring them down again unto
us in the wilderness.
And after this manner of language did my father, Lehi, comfort
my mother, Sariah, concerning us, while we journeyed in the
wilderness up to the land of Jerusalem, to obtain the record of
the Jews.
And when we had returned to the tent of my father, behold
their joy was full, and my mother was comforted.
And she spake, saying: Now I know of a surety that the Lord
hath commanded my husband to flee into the wilderness; yea, and I
also know of a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons, and
delivered them out of the hands of Laban, and given them power
whereby they could accomplish the thing which the Lord hath
commanded them. And after this manner of language did she speak.
And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceedingly, and did
offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord; and they gave
thanks unto the God of Israel.
And after they had given thanks unto the God of Israel, my
father, Lehi, took the records which were engraven upon the
plates of brass, and he did search them from the beginning.
And he beheld that they did contain the five books of Moses,
which gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of
Adam and Eve, who were our first parents;
And also a record of the Jews from the beginning, even down
to the commencement of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah;
And also the prophecies of the holy prophets, from the
beginning, even down to the commencement of the reign of
Zedekiah; and also many prophecies which have been spoken by the
mouth of Jeremiah.
And it came to pass that my father, Lehi, also found upon the
plates of brass a genealogy of his fathers; wherefore he knew
that he was a descendant of Joseph; yea, even that Joseph who was
the son of Jacob, who was sold into Egypt, and who was preserved
by the hand of the Lord, that he might preserve his father,
Jacob, and all his household from perishing with famine.
And they were also led out of captivity and out of the land
of Egypt, by that same God who had preserved them.
And thus my father, Lehi, did discover the genealogy of his
fathers. And Laban also was a descendant of Joseph, wherefore he
and his fathers had kept the records.
And now when my father saw all these things, he was filled
with the Spirit, and began to prophesy concerning his seed--
That these plates of brass should go forth unto all nations,
kindreds, tongues, and people who were of his seed.
Wherefore, he said that these plates of brass should never
perish; neither should they be dimmed any more by time. And he
prophesied many things concerning his seed.
And it came to pass that thus far I and my father had kept
the commandments wherewith the Lord had commanded us.
And we had obtained the records which the Lord had commanded
us, and searched them and found that they were desirable; yea,
even of great worth unto us, insomuch that we could preserve the
commandments of the Lord unto our children.
Wherefore, it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry
them with us, as we journeyed in the wilderness towards the land
of promise.
And now I, Nephi, do not give the genealogy of my fathers in
this part of my record; neither at any time shall I give it after
upon these plates which I am writing; for it is given in the
record which has been kept by my father; wherefore, I do not
write it in this work.
For it sufficeth me to say that we are descendants of Joseph.
And it mattereth not to me that I am particular to give a full
account of all the things of my father, for they cannot be
written upon these plates, for I desire the room that I may write
of the things of God.
For the fulness of mine intent is that I may persuade men to
come unto the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
of Jacob, and be saved.
Wherefore, the things which are pleasing unto the world I do
not write, but the things which are pleasing unto God and unto
those who are not of the world.
Wherefore, I shall give commandment unto my seed, that they
shall not occupy these plates with things which are not of worth
unto the children of men.
And now I would that ye might know, that after my father,
Lehi, had made an end of prophesying concerning his seed, it came
to pass that the Lord spake unto him again, saying that it was
not meet for him, Lehi, that he should take his family into the
wilderness alone; but that his sons should take daughters to
wife, that they might raise up seed unto the Lord in the land of
promise.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that I, Nephi,
and my brethren, should again return unto the land of Jerusalem,
and bring down Ishmael and his family into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did again, with my
brethren, go forth into the wilderness to go up to Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that we went up unto the house of Ishmael,
and we did gain favor in the sight of Ishmael, insomuch that we
did speak unto him the words of the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the heart of
Ishmael, and also his household, insomuch that they took their
journey with us down into the wilderness to the tent of our
father.
And it came to pass that as we journeyed in the wilderness,
behold Laman and Lemuel, and two of the daughters of Ishmael, and
the two sons of Ishmael and their families, did rebel against us;
yea, against me, Nephi, and Sam, and their father, Ishmael, and
his wife, and his three other daughters.
And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they were desirous
to return unto the land of Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being grieved for the hardness of their
hearts, therefore I spake unto them, saying, yea, even unto Laman
and unto Lemuel: Behold ye are mine elder brethren, and how is it
that ye are so hard in your hearts, and so blind in your minds,
that ye have need that I, your younger brother, should speak unto
you, yea, and set an example for you?
How is it that ye have not hearkened unto the word of the
Lord?
How is it that ye have forgotten that ye have seen an angel
of the Lord?
Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten what great things
the Lord hath done for us, in delivering us out of the hands of
Laban, and also that we should obtain the record?
Yea, and how is it that ye have forgotten that the Lord is
able to do all things according to his will, for the children of
men, if it so be that they exercise faith in him? Wherefore, let
us be faithful to him.
And if it so be that we are faithful to him, we shall obtain
the land of promise; and ye shall know at some future period that
the word of the Lord shall be fulfilled concerning the
destruction of Jerusalem; for all things which the Lord hath
spoken concerning the destruction of Jerusalem must be fulfilled.
For behold, the Spirit of the Lord ceaseth soon to strive
with them; for behold, they have rejected the prophets, and
Jeremiah have they cast into prison. And they have sought to
take away the life of my father, insomuch that they have driven
him out of the land.
Now behold, I say unto you that if ye will return unto
Jerusalem ye shall also perish with them. And now, if ye have
choice, go up to the land, and remember the words which I speak
unto you, that if ye go ye will also perish; for thus the Spirit
of the Lord constraineth me that I should speak.
And it came to pass that when I, Nephi, had spoken these
words unto my brethren, they were angry with me. And it came to
pass that they did lay their hands upon me, for behold, they were
exceedingly wroth, and they did bind me with cords, for they
sought to take away my life, that they might leave me in the
wilderness to be devoured by wild beasts.
But it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord, saying: O
Lord, according to my faith which is in thee, wilt thou deliver
me from the hands of my brethren; yea, even give me strength that
I may burst these bands with which I am bound.
And it came to pass that when I had said these words, behold,
the bands were loosed from off my hands and feet, and I stood
before my brethren, and I spake unto them again.
And it came to pass that they were angry with me again, and
sought to lay hands upon me; but behold, one of the daughters of
Ishmael, yea, and also her mother, and one of the sons of
Ishmael, did plead with my brethren, insomuch that they did
soften their hearts; and they did cease striving to take away my
life.
And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, because of
their wickedness, insomuch that they did bow down before me, and
did plead with me that I would forgive them of the thing that
they had done against me.
And it came to pass that I did frankly forgive them all that
they had done, and I did exhort them that they would pray unto
the Lord their God for forgiveness. And it came to pass that
they did so. And after they had done praying unto the Lord we
did again travel on our journey towards the tent of our father.
And it came to pass that we did come down unto the tent of
our father. And after I and my brethren and all the house of
Ishmael had come down unto the tent of my father, they did give
thanks unto the Lord their God; and they did offer sacrifice and
burnt offerings unto him.
And it came to pass that we had gathered together all manner
of seeds of every kind, both of grain of every kind, and also of
the seeds of fruit of every kind.
And it came to pass that while my father tarried in the
wilderness he spake unto us, saying: Behold, I have dreamed a
dream; or, in other words, I have seen a vision.
And behold, because of the thing which I have seen, I have
reason to rejoice in the Lord because of Nephi and also of Sam;
for I have reason to suppose that they, and also many of their
seed, will be saved.
But behold, Laman and Lemuel, I fear exceedingly because of
you; for behold, methought I saw in my dream, a dark and dreary
wilderness.
And it came to pass that I saw a man, and he was dressed in a
white robe; and he came and stood before me.
And it came to pass that he spake unto me, and bade me follow
him.
And it came to pass that as I followed him I beheld myself
that I was in a dark and dreary waste.
And after I had traveled for the space of many hours in
darkness, I began to pray unto the Lord that he would have mercy
on me, according to the multitude of his tender mercies.
And it came to pass after I had prayed unto the Lord I beheld
a large and spacious field.
And it came to pass that I beheld a tree, whose fruit was
desirable to make one happy.
And it came to pass that I did go forth and partake of the
fruit thereof; and I beheld that it was most sweet, above all
that I ever before tasted. Yea, and I beheld that the fruit
thereof was white, to exceed all the whiteness that I had ever
seen.
And as I partook of the fruit thereof it filled my soul with
exceedingly great joy; wherefore, I began to be desirous that my
family should partake of it also; for I knew that it was
desirable above all other fruit.
And as I cast my eyes round about, that perhaps I might
discover my family also, I beheld a river of water; and it ran
along, and it was near the tree of which I was partaking the
fruit.
And I looked to behold from whence it came; and I saw the
head thereof a little way off; and at the head thereof I beheld
your mother Sariah, and Sam, and Nephi; and they stood as if they
knew not whither they should go.
And it came to pass that I beckoned unto them; and I also did
say unto them with a loud voice that they should come unto me,
and partake of the fruit, which was desirable above all other
fruit.
And it came to pass that they did come unto me and partake of
the fruit also.
And it came to pass that I was desirous that Laman and Lemuel
should come and partake of the fruit also; wherefore, I cast mine
eyes towards the head of the river, that perhaps I might see
them.
And it came to pass that I saw them, but they would not come
unto me and partake of the fruit.
And I beheld a rod of iron, and it extended along the bank of
the river, and led to the tree by which I stood.
And I also beheld a strait and narrow path, which came along
by the rod of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it
also led by the head of the fountain, unto a large and spacious
field, as if it had been a world.
And I saw numberless concourses of people, many of whom were
pressing forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto
the tree by which I stood.
And it came to pass that they did come forth, and commence in
the path which led to the tree.
And it came to pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea,
even an exceedingly great mist of darkness, insomuch that they
who had commenced in the path did lose their way, that they
wandered off and were lost.
And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing forward,
and they came forth and caught hold of the end of the rod of
iron; and they did press forward through the mist of darkness,
clinging to the rod of iron, even until they did come forth and
partake of the fruit of the tree.
And after they had partaken of the fruit of the tree they did
cast their eyes about as if they were ashamed.
And I also cast my eyes round about, and beheld, on the other
side of the river of water, a great and spacious building; and it
stood as it were in the air, high above the earth.
And it was filled with people, both old and young, both male
and female; and their manner of dress was exceedingly fine; and
they were in the attitude of mocking and pointing their fingers
towards those who had come at and were partaking of the fruit.
And after they had tasted of the fruit they were ashamed,
because of those that were scoffing at them; and they fell away
into forbidden paths and were lost.
And now I, Nephi, do not speak all the words of my father.
But, to be short in writing, behold, he saw other multitudes
pressing forward; and they came and caught hold of the end of the
rod of iron; and they did press their way forward, continually
holding fast to the rod of iron, until they came forth and fell
down and partook of the fruit of the tree.
And he also saw other multitudes feeling their way towards
that great and spacious building.
And it came to pass that many were drowned in the depths of
the fountain; and many were lost from his view, wandering in
strange roads.
And great was the multitude that did enter into that strange
building. And after they did enter into that building they did
point the finger of scorn at me and those that were partaking of
the fruit also; but we heeded them not.
These are the words of my father: For as many as heeded them,
had fallen away.
And Laman and Lemuel partook not of the fruit, said my
father.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken all the words
of his dream or vision, which were many, he said unto us, because
of these things which he saw in a vision, he exceedingly feared
for Laman and Lemuel; yea, he feared lest they should be cast off
from the presence of the Lord.
And he did exhort them then with all the feeling of a tender
parent, that they would hearken to his words, that perhaps the
Lord would be merciful to them, and not cast them off; yea, my
father did preach unto them.
And after he had preached unto them, and also prophesied unto
them of many things, he bade them to keep the commandments of the
Lord; and he did cease speaking unto them.
And all these things did my father see, and hear, and speak,
as he dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel, and also a great
many more things, which cannot be written upon these plates.
And now, as I have spoken concerning these plates, behold they
are not the plates upon which I make a full account of the
history of my people; for the plates upon which I make a full
account of my people I have given the name of Nephi; wherefore,
they are called the plates of Nephi, after mine own name; and
these plates also are called the plates of Nephi.
Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of the Lord that I
should make these plates, for the special purpose that there
should be an account engraven of the ministry of my people.
Upon the other plates should be engraven an account of the
reign of the kings, and the wars and contentions of my people;
wherefore these plates are for the more part of the ministry; and
the other plates are for the more part of the reign of the kings
and the wars and contentions of my people.
Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for
a wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not.
But the Lord knoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore,
he prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children
of men; for behold, he hath all power unto the fulfilling of all
his words. And thus it is. Amen.
And now I, Nephi, proceed to give an account upon these plates
of my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; wherefore, to
proceed with mine account, I must speak somewhat of the things of
my father, and also of my brethren.
For behold, it came to pass after my father had made an end of
speaking the words of his dream, and also of exhorting them to
all diligence, he spake unto them concerning the Jews--
That after they should be destroyed, even that great city
Jerusalem, and many be carried away captive into Babylon,
according to the own due time of the Lord, they should return
again, yea, even be brought back out of captivity; and after they
should be brought back out of captivity they should possess again
the land of their inheritance.
Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left
Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the
Jews--even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world.
And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number
had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom
he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world.
Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen state,
and ever would be save they should rely on this Redeemer.
And he spake also concerning a prophet who should come before
the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord--
Yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness:
Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for
there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier
than I, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And
much spake my father concerning this thing.
And my father said he should baptize in Bethabara, beyond
Jordan; and he also said he should baptize with water; even that
he should baptize the Messiah with water.
And after he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should
behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who
should take away the sins of the world.
And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words he
spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be
preached among the Jews, and also concerning the dwindling of the
Jews in unbelief. And after they had slain the Messiah, who
should come, and after he had been slain he should rise from the
dead, and should make himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto
the Gentiles.
Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles, and
also concerning the house of Israel, that they should be compared
like unto an olive-tree, whose branches should be broken off and
should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.
Wherefore, he said it must needs be that we should be led
with one accord into the land of promise, unto the fulfilling of
the word of the Lord, that we should be scattered upon all the
face of the earth.
And after the house of Israel should be scattered they should
be gathered together again; or, in fine, after the Gentiles had
received the fulness of the Gospel, the natural branches of the
olive-tree, or the remnants of the house of Israel, should be
grafted in, or come to the knowledge of the true Messiah, their
Lord and their Redeemer.
And after this manner of language did my father prophesy and
speak unto my brethren, and also many more things which I do not
write in this book; for I have written as many of them as were
expedient for me in mine other book.
And all these things, of which I have spoken, were done as my
father dwelt in a tent, in the valley of Lemuel.
And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the
words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a
vision, and also the things which he spake by the power of the
Holy Ghost, which power he received by faith on the Son of
God--and the Son of God was the Messiah who should come--I,
Nephi, was desirous also that I might see, and hear, and know of
these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost, which is the gift
of God unto all those who diligently seek him, as well in times
of old as in the time that he should manifest himself unto the
children of men.
For he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the
way is prepared for all men from the foundation of the world, if
it so be that they repent and come unto him.
For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries
of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy
Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in
times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the
Lord is one eternal round.
Therefore remember, O man, for all thy doings thou shalt be
brought into judgment.
Wherefore, if ye have sought to do wickedly in the days of
your probation, then ye are found unclean before the
judgment-seat of God; and no unclean thing can dwell with God;
wherefore, ye must be cast off forever.
And the Holy Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these
things, and deny them not.
For it came to pass after I had desired to know the things
that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord was able to
make them known unto me, as I sat pondering in mine heart I was
caught away in the Spirit of the Lord, yea, into an exceedingly
high mountain, which I never had before seen, and upon which I
never had before set my foot.
And the Spirit said unto me: Behold, what desirest thou?
And I said: I desire to behold the things which my father saw.
And the Spirit said unto me: Believest thou that thy father
saw the tree of which he hath spoken?
And I said: Yea, thou knowest that I believe all the words of
my father.
And when I had spoken these words, the Spirit cried with a
loud voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high God; for
he is God over all the earth, yea, even above all. And blessed
art thou, Nephi, because thou believest in the Son of the most
high God; wherefore, thou shalt behold the things which thou hast
desired.
And behold this thing shall be given unto thee for a sign,
that after thou hast beheld the tree which bore the fruit which
thy father tasted, thou shalt also behold a man descending out of
heaven, and him shall ye witness; and after ye have witnessed him
ye shall bear record that it is the Son of God.
And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me: Look! And I
looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my
father had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond, yea,
exceeding of all beauty; and the whiteness thereof did exceed the
whiteness of the driven snow.
And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the
Spirit: I behold thou hast shown unto me the tree which is
precious above all.
And he said unto me: What desirest thou?
And I said unto him: To know the interpretation thereof--for
I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in
the form of a man; yet nevertheless, I knew that it was the
Spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with
another.
And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look! And I looked
as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from
before my presence.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city
of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of
Nazareth; and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she
was exceedingly fair and white.
And it came to pass that I saw the heavens open; and an angel
came down and stood before me; and he said unto me: Nephi, what
beholdest thou?
And I said unto him: A virgin, most beautiful and fair above
all other virgins.
And he said unto me: Knowest thou the condescension of God?
And I said unto him: I know that he loveth his children;
nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things.
And he said unto me: Behold, the virgin whom thou seest is
the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.
And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away
in the Spirit; and after she had been carried away in the Spirit
for the space of a time the angel spake unto me, saying: Look!
And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in
her arms.
And the angel said unto me: Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even
the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the
tree which thy father saw?
And I answered him, saying: Yea, it is the love of God, which
sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men;
wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things.
And he spake unto me, saying: Yea, and the most joyous to the
soul.
And after he had said these words, he said unto me: Look!
And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the
children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship
him.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron, which
my father had seen, was the word of God, which led to the
fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters
are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that
the tree of life was a representation of the love of God.
And the angel said unto me again: Look and behold the
condescension of God!
And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my
father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet who should
prepare the way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and
was baptized of him; and after he was baptized, I beheld the
heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of heaven and
abide upon him in the form of a dove.
And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people,
in power and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered
together to hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from
among them.
And I also beheld twelve others following him. And it came
to pass that they were carried away in the Spirit from before my
face, and I saw them not.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again,
and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; and they
did minister unto them.
And he spake unto me again, saying: Look! And I looked, and
I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men.
And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were
afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils and
unclean spirits; and the angel spake and showed all these things
unto me. And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God;
and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he
was taken by the people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was
judged of the world; and I saw and bear record.
And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross and
slain for the sins of the world.
And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth,
that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of
the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the
Lord.
And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I
beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, like unto
the building which my father saw. And the angel of the Lord
spake unto me again, saying: Behold the world and the wisdom
thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together
to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the
great and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it
fell, and the fall thereof was exceedingly great. And the angel
of the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Thus shall be the
destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, that
shall fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Look, and
behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren. And I looked
and beheld the land of promise; and I beheld multitudes of
people, yea, even as it were in number as many as the sand of the
sea.
And it came to pass that I beheld multitudes gathered together
to battle, one against the other; and I beheld wars, and rumors
of wars, and great slaughters with the sword among my people.
And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass away,
after the manner of wars and contentions in the land; and I
beheld many cities, yea, even that I did not number them.
And it came to pass that I saw a mist of darkness on the face
of the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and I heard
thunderings, and earthquakes, and all manner of tumultuous
noises; and I saw the earth and the rocks, that they rent; and I
saw mountains tumbling into pieces; and I saw the plains of the
earth, that they were broken up; and I saw many cities that they
were sunk; and I saw many that they were burned with fire; and I
saw many that did tumble to the earth, because of the quaking
thereof.
And it came to pass after I saw these things, I saw the vapor
of darkness, that it passed from off the face of the earth; and
behold, I saw multitudes who had not fallen because of the great
and terrible judgments of the Lord.
And I saw the heavens open, and the Lamb of God descending out
of heaven; and he came down and showed himself unto them.
And I also saw and bear record that the Holy Ghost fell upon
twelve others; and they were ordained of God, and chosen.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the twelve
disciples of the Lamb, who are chosen to minister unto thy seed.
And he said unto me: Thou rememberest the twelve apostles of
the Lamb? Behold they are they who shall judge the twelve tribes
of Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers of thy seed shall be
judged of them; for ye are of the house of Israel.
And these twelve ministers whom thou beholdest shall judge
thy seed. And, behold, they are righteous forever; for because
of their faith in the Lamb of God their garments are made white
in his blood.
And the angel said unto me: Look! And I looked, and beheld
three generations pass away in righteousness; and their garments
were white even like unto the Lamb of God. And the angel said
unto me: These are made white in the blood of the Lamb, because
of their faith in him.
And I, Nephi, also saw many of the fourth generation who
passed away in righteousness.
And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes of the earth
gathered together.
And the angel said unto me: Behold thy seed, and also the
seed of thy brethren.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the people of my
seed gathered together in multitudes against the seed of my
brethren; and they were gathered together to battle.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the fountain of
filthy water which thy father saw; yea, even the river of which
he spake; and the depths thereof are the depths of hell.
And the mists of darkness are the temptations of the devil,
which blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts of the children
of men, and leadeth them away into broad roads, that they perish
and are lost.
And the large and spacious building, which thy father saw, is
vain imaginations and the pride of the children of men. And a
great and a terrible gulf divideth them; yea, even the word of
the justice of the Eternal God, and the Messiah who is the Lamb
of God, of whom the Holy Ghost beareth record, from the beginning
of the world until this time, and from this time henceforth and
forever.
And while the angel spake these words, I beheld and saw that
the seed of my brethren did contend against my seed, according to
the word of the angel; and because of the pride of my seed, and
the temptations of the devil, I beheld that the seed of my
brethren did overpower the people of my seed.
And it came to pass that I beheld, and saw the people of the
seed of my brethren that they had overcome my seed; and they went
forth in multitudes upon the face of the land.
And I saw them gathered together in multitudes; and I saw
wars and rumors of wars among them; and in wars and rumors of
wars I saw many generations pass away.
And the angel said unto me: Behold these shall dwindle in
unbelief.
And it came to pass that I beheld, after they had dwindled in
unbelief they became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people,
full of idleness and all manner of abominations.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying:
Look! And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms.
And the angel said unto me: What beholdest thou? And I said:
I behold many nations and kingdoms.
And he said unto me: These are the nations and kingdoms of the
Gentiles.
And it came to pass that I saw among the nations of the
Gentiles the formation of a great church.
And the angel said unto me: Behold the formation of a church
which is most abominable above all other churches, which slayeth
the saints of God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth them down,
and yoketh them with a yoke of iron, and bringeth them down into
captivity.
And it came to pass that I beheld this great and abominable
church; and I saw the devil that he was the founder of it.
And I also saw gold, and silver, and silks, and scarlets, and
fine-twined linen, and all manner of precious clothing; and I saw
many harlots.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the gold, and the
silver, and the silks, and the scarlets, and the fine-twined
linen, and the precious clothing, and the harlots, are the
desires of this great and abominable church.
And also for the praise of the world do they destroy the
saints of God, and bring them down into captivity.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld many waters; and
they divided the Gentiles from the seed of my brethren.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Behold the
wrath of God is upon the seed of thy brethren.
And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was
separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I
beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the
man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed
of my brethren, who were in the promised land.
And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it
wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of
captivity, upon the many waters.
And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the
Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God,
that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered
before the Gentiles and were smitten.
And I beheld the Spirit of the Lord, that it was upon the
Gentiles, and they did prosper and obtain the land for their
inheritance; and I beheld that they were white, and exceedingly
fair and beautiful, like unto my people before they were slain.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles
who had gone forth out of captivity did humble themselves before
the Lord; and the power of the Lord was with them.
And I beheld that their mother Gentiles were gathered
together upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle
against them.
And I beheld that the power of God was with them, and also
that the wrath of God was upon all those that were gathered
together against them to battle.
And I, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles that had gone out of
captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of
all other nations.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that they did
prosper in the land; and I beheld a book, and it was carried
forth among them.
And the angel said unto me: Knowest thou the meaning of the
book?
And I said unto him: I know not.
And he said: Behold it proceedeth out of the mouth of a Jew.
And I, Nephi, beheld it; and he said unto me: The book that thou
beholdest is a record of the Jews, which contains the covenants
of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of Israel; and it
also containeth many of the prophecies of the holy prophets; and
it is a record like unto the engravings which are upon the plates
of brass, save there are not so many; nevertheless, they contain
the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of
Israel; wherefore, they are of great worth unto the Gentiles.
And the angel of the Lord said unto me: Thou hast beheld that
the book proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew; and when it
proceeded forth from the mouth of a Jew it contained the fulness
of the gospel of the Lord, of whom the twelve apostles bear
record; and they bear record according to the truth which is in
the Lamb of God.
Wherefore, these things go forth from the Jews in purity unto
the Gentiles, according to the truth which is in God.
And after they go forth by the hand of the twelve apostles of
the Lamb, from the Jews unto the Gentiles, thou seest the
formation of a great and abominable church, which is most
abominable above all other churches; for behold, they have taken
away from the gospel of the Lamb many parts which are plain and
most precious; and also many covenants of the Lord have they
taken away.
And all this have they done that they might pervert the right
ways of the Lord, that they might blind the eyes and harden the
hearts of the children of men.
Wherefore, thou seest that after the book hath gone forth
through the hands of the great and abominable church, that there
are many plain and precious things taken away from the book,
which is the book of the Lamb of God.
And after these plain and precious things were taken away it
goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles; and after it
goeth forth unto all the nations of the Gentiles, yea, even
across the many waters which thou hast seen with the Gentiles
which have gone forth out of captivity, thou seest--because of
the many plain and precious things which have been taken out of
the book, which were plain unto the understanding of the children
of men, according to the plainness which is in the Lamb of
God--because of these things which are taken away out of the
gospel of the Lamb, an exceedingly great many do stumble, yea,
insomuch that Satan hath great power over them.
Nevertheless, thou beholdest that the Gentiles who have gone
forth out of captivity, and have been lifted up by the power of
God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is
choice above all other lands, which is the land that the Lord God
hath covenanted with thy father that his seed should have for the
land of their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the Lord
God will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy the
mixture of thy seed, which are among thy brethren.
Neither will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the
seed of thy brethren.
Neither will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles shall
forever remain in that awful state of blindness, which thou
beholdest they are in, because of the plain and most precious
parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that
abominable church, whose formation thou hast seen.
Wherefore saith the Lamb of God: I will be merciful unto the
Gentiles, unto the visiting of the remnant of the house of Israel
in great judgment.
And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake unto me,
saying: Behold, saith the Lamb of God, after I have visited the
remnant of the house of Israel--and this remnant of whom I speak
is the seed of thy father--wherefore, after I have visited them
in judgment, and smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles, and
after the Gentiles do stumble exceedingly, because of the most
plain and precious parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have
been kept back by that abominable church, which is the mother of
harlots, saith the Lamb--I will be merciful unto the Gentiles in
that day, insomuch that I will bring forth unto them, in mine own
power, much of my gospel, which shall be plain and precious,
saith the Lamb.
For, behold, saith the Lamb: I will manifest myself unto thy
seed, that they shall write many things which I shall minister
unto them, which shall be plain and precious; and after thy seed
shall be destroyed, and dwindle in unbelief, and also the seed of
thy brethren, behold, these things shall be hid up, to come forth
unto the Gentiles, by the gift and power of the Lamb.
And in them shall be written my gospel, saith the Lamb, and
my rock and my salvation.
And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at
that day, for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy
Ghost; and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at
the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of
the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great
joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be.
And it came to pass that I beheld the remnant of the seed of
my brethren, and also the book of the Lamb of God, which had
proceeded forth from the mouth of the Jew, that it came forth
from the Gentiles unto the remnant of the seed of my brethren.
And after it had come forth unto them I beheld other books,
which came forth by the power of the Lamb, from the Gentiles unto
them, unto the convincing of the Gentiles and the remnant of the
seed of my brethren, and also the Jews who were scattered upon
all the face of the earth, that the records of the prophets and
of the twelve apostles of the Lamb are true.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: These last records,
which thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall establish the
truth of the first, which are of the twelve apostles of the Lamb,
and shall make known the plain and precious things which have
been taken away from them; and shall make known to all kindreds,
tongues, and people, that the Lamb of God is the Son of the
Eternal Father, and the Savior of the world; and that all men
must come unto him, or they cannot be saved.
And they must come according to the words which shall be
established by the mouth of the Lamb; and the words of the Lamb
shall be made known in the records of thy seed, as well as in the
records of the twelve apostles of the Lamb; wherefore they both
shall be established in one; for there is one God and one
Shepherd over all the earth.
And the time cometh that he shall manifest himself unto all
nations, both unto the Jews and also unto the Gentiles; and after
he has manifested himself unto the Jews and also unto the
Gentiles, then he shall manifest himself unto the Gentiles and
also unto the Jews, and the last shall be first, and the first
shall be last.
And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken
unto the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest himself
unto them in word, and also in power, in very deed, unto the
taking away of their stumbling blocks--
And harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they
shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall
be numbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a
blessed people upon the promised land forever; they shall be no
more brought down into captivity; and the house of Israel shall
no more be confounded.
And that great pit, which hath been digged for them by that
great and abominable church, which was founded by the devil and
his children, that he might lead away the souls of men down to
hell--yea, that great pit which hath been digged for the
destruction of men shall be filled by those who digged it, unto
their utter destruction, saith the Lamb of God; not the
destruction of the soul, save it be the casting of it into that
hell which hath no end.
For behold, this is according to the captivity of the devil,
and also according to the justice of God, upon all those who will
work wickedness and abomination before him.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Nephi,
saying: Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent it shall be
well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the covenants of
the Lord unto the house of Israel; and thou also hast heard that
whoso repenteth not must perish.
Therefore, wo be unto the Gentiles if it so be that they
harden their hearts against the Lamb of God.
For the time cometh, saith the Lamb of God, that I will work a
great and a marvelous work among the children of men; a work
which shall be everlasting, either on the one hand or on the
other--either to the convincing of them unto peace and life
eternal, or unto the deliverance of them to the hardness of their
hearts and the blindness of their minds unto their being brought
down into captivity, and also into destruction, both temporally
and spiritually, according to the captivity of the devil, of
which I have spoken.
And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these
words, he said unto me: Rememberest thou the covenants of the
Father unto the house of Israel? I said unto him, Yea.
And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look, and behold
that great and abominable church, which is the mother of
abominations, whose founder is the devil.
And he said unto me: Behold there are save two churches only;
the one is the church of the Lamb of God, and the other is the
church of the devil; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church
of the Lamb of God belongeth to that great church, which is the
mother of abominations; and she is the whore of all the earth.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of all
the earth, and she sat upon many waters; and she had dominion
over all the earth, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and
people.
And it came to pass that I beheld the church of the Lamb of
God, and its numbers were few, because of the wickedness and
abominations of the whore who sat upon many waters; nevertheless,
I beheld that the church of the Lamb, who were the saints of God,
were also upon all the face of the earth; and their dominions
upon the face of the earth were small, because of the wickedness
of the great whore whom I saw.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother of
abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of all
the earth, among all the nations of the Gentiles, to fight
against the Lamb of God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the
Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of
the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were
scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed
with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath of God was
poured out upon that great and abominable church, insomuch that
there were wars and rumors of wars among all the nations and
kindreds of the earth.
And as there began to be wars and rumors of wars among all
the nations which belonged to the mother of abominations, the
angel spake unto me, saying: Behold, the wrath of God is upon the
mother of harlots; and behold, thou seest all these things--
And when the day cometh that the wrath of God is poured out
upon the mother of harlots, which is the great and abominable
church of all the earth, whose founder is the devil, then, at
that day, the work of the Father shall commence, in preparing the
way for the fulfilling of his covenants, which he hath made to
his people who are of the house of Israel.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying:
Look!
And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white
robe.
And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles
of the Lamb.
Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things;
yea, and also many things which have been.
And he shall also write concerning the end of the world.
Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true;
and behold they are written in the book which thou beheld
proceeding out of the mouth of the Jew; and at the time they
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, or, at the time the book
proceeded out of the mouth of the Jew, the things which were
written were plain and pure, and most precious and easy to the
understanding of all men.
And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall
write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the
remainder shalt thou see.
But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not
write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of
God that he should write them.
And also others who have been, to them hath he shown all
things, and they have written them; and they are sealed up to
come forth in their purity, according to the truth which is in
the Lamb, in the own due time of the Lord, unto the house of
Israel.
And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the
apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel.
And behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that I should write the
remainder of the things which I saw and heard; wherefore the
things which I have written sufficeth me; and I have written but
a small part of the things which I saw.
And I bear record that I saw the things which my father saw,
and the angel of the Lord did make them known unto me.
And now I make an end of speaking concerning the things which
I saw while I was carried away in the spirit; and if all the
things which I saw are not written, the things which I have
written are true. And thus it is. Amen.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been carried away
in the spirit, and seen all these things, I returned to the tent
of my father.
And it came to pass that I beheld my brethren, and they were
disputing one with another concerning the things my father had
spoken unto them.
For he truly spake many great things unto them, which were
hard to be understood, save a man should inquire of the Lord; and
they being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto
the Lord as they ought.
And now I, Nephi, was grieved because of the hardness of their
hearts, and also, because of the things which I had seen, and
knew they must unavoidably come to pass because of the great
wickedness of the children of men.
And it came to pass that I was overcome because of my
afflictions, for I considered that mine afflictions were great
above all, because of the destruction of my people, for I had
beheld their fall.
And it came to pass that after I had received strength I spake
unto my brethren, desiring to know of them the cause of their
disputations.
And they said: Behold, we cannot understand the words which
our father hath spoken concerning the natural branches of the
olive-tree, and also concerning the Gentiles.
And I said unto them: Have ye inquired of the Lord?
And they said unto me: We have not; for the Lord maketh no
such thing known unto us.
Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the
commandments of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because
of the hardness of your hearts?
Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said?--If
ye will not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing
that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments,
surely these things shall be made known unto you.
Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared
unto an olive-tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our
father; and behold are we not broken off from the house of
Israel, and are we not a branch of the house of Israel?
And now, the thing which our father meaneth concerning the
grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the
Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have
dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many
generations after the Messiah shall be manifested in body unto
the children of men, then shall the fulness of the gospel of the
Messiah come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the
remnant of our seed--
And at that day shall the remnant of our seed know that they
are of the house of Israel, and that they are the covenant people
of the Lord; and then shall they know and come to the knowledge
of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of
their Redeemer, which was ministered unto their fathers by him;
wherefore, they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and
the very points of his doctrine, that they may know how to come
unto him and be saved.
And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise
unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea,
at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment
from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of
God?
Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again
among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a
natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree.
And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it
will not come to pass until after they are scattered by the
Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by way of the
Gentiles, that the Lord may show his power unto the Gentiles, for
the very cause that he shall be rejected of the Jews, or of the
house of Israel.
Wherefore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but
also of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which
should be fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the Lord
made to our father Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall all the
kindreds of the earth be blessed.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them
concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them concerning the
restoration of the Jews in the latter days.
And I did rehearse unto them the words of Isaiah, who spake
concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of
Israel; and after they were restored they should no more be
confounded, neither should they be scattered again. And it came
to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that they
were pacified and did humble themselves before the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again,
saying: What meaneth this thing which our father saw in a dream?
What meaneth the tree which he saw?
And I said unto them: It was a representation of the tree of
life.
And they said unto me: What meaneth the rod of iron which our
father saw, that led to the tree?
And I said unto them that it was the word of God, and whose
would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it,
they would never perish; neither could the temptations and the
fiery darts of the adversary overpower them unto blindness, to
lead them away to destruction.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did exhort them to give heed unto the
word of the Lord; yea, I did exhort them with all the energies of
my soul, and with all the faculty which I possessed, that they
would give heed to the word of God and remember to keep his
commandments always in all things.
And they said unto me: What meaneth the river of water which
our father saw?
And I said unto them that the water which my father saw was
filthiness; and so much was his mind swallowed up in other things
that he beheld not the filthiness of the water.
And I said unto them that it was an awful gulf, which
separated the wicked from the tree of life, and also from the
saints of God.
And I said unto them that it was a representation of that
awful hell, which the angel said unto me was prepared for the
wicked.
And I said unto them that our father also saw that the
justice of God did also divide the wicked from the righteous; and
the brightness thereof was like unto the brightness of a flaming
fire, which ascendeth up unto God forever and ever, and hath no
end.
And they said unto me: Doth this thing mean the torment of
the body in the days of probation, or doth it mean the final
state of the soul after the death of the temporal body, or doth
it speak of the things which are temporal?
And it came to pass that I said unto them that it was a
representation of things both temporal and spiritual; for the day
should come that they must be judged of their works, yea, even
the works which were done by the temporal body in their days of
probation.
Wherefore, if they should die in their wickedness they must
be cast off also, as to the things which are spiritual, which are
pertaining to righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to
stand before God, to be judged of their works; and if their works
have been filthiness they must needs be filthy; and if they be
filthy it must needs be that they cannot dwell in the kingdom of
God; if so, the kingdom of God must be filthy also.
But behold, I say unto you, the kingdom of God is not filthy,
and there cannot any unclean thing enter into the kingdom of God;
wherefore there must needs be a place of filthiness prepared for
that which is filthy.
And there is a place prepared, yea, even that awful hell of
which I have spoken, and the devil is the preparator of it;
wherefore the final state of the souls of men is to dwell in the
kingdom of God, or to be cast out because of that justice of
which I have spoken.
Wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the righteous, and
also from that tree of life, whose fruit is most precious and
most desirable above all other fruits; yea, and it is the
greatest of all the gifts of God. And thus I spake unto my
brethren. Amen.
And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an end
of speaking to my brethren, behold they said unto me: Thou hast
declared unto us hard things, more than we are able to bear.
And it came to pass that I said unto them that I knew that I
had spoken hard things against the wicked, according to the
truth; and the righteous have I justified, and testified that
they should be lifted up at the last day; wherefore, the guilty
taketh the truth to be hard, for it cutteth them to the very
center.
And now my brethren, if ye were righteous and were willing to
hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it, that ye might walk
uprightly before God, then ye would not murmur because of the
truth, and say: Thou speakest hard things against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did exhort my brethren,
with all diligence, to keep the commandments of the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did humble themselves before the
Lord; insomuch that I had joy and great hopes of them, that they
would walk in the paths of righteousness.
Now, all these things were said and done as my father dwelt in
a tent in the valley which he called Lemuel.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one of the daughters
of Ishmael to wife; and also, my brethren took of the daughters
of Ishmael to wife; and also Zoram took the eldest daughter of
Ishmael to wife.
And thus my father had fulfilled all the commandments of the
Lord which had been given unto him. And also, I, Nephi, had been
blessed of the Lord exceedingly.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord spake unto my
father by night, and commanded him that on the morrow he should
take his journey into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that as my father arose in the morning,
and went forth to the tent door, to his great astonishment he
beheld upon the ground a round ball of curious workmanship; and
it was of fine brass. And within the ball were two spindles; and
the one pointed the way whither we should go into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did gather together whatsoever
things we should carry into the wilderness, and all the remainder
of our provisions which the Lord had given unto us; and we did
take seed of every kind that we might carry into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did take our tents and depart
into the wilderness, across the river Laman.
And it came to pass that we traveled for the space of four
days, nearly a south-southeast direction, and we did pitch our
tents again; and we did call the name of the place Shazer.
And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our arrows,
and go forth into the wilderness to slay food for our families;
and after we had slain food for our families we did return again
to our families in the wilderness, to the place of Shazer. And
we did go forth again in the wilderness, following the same
direction, keeping in the most fertile parts of the wilderness,
which were in the borders near the Red Sea.
And it came to pass that we did travel for the space of many
days, slaying food by the way, with our bows and our arrows and
our stones and our slings.
And we did follow the directions of the ball, which led us in
the more fertile parts of the wilderness.
And after we had traveled for the space of many days, we did
pitch our tents for the space of a time, that we might again rest
ourselves and obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that as I, Nephi, went forth to slay
food, behold, I did break my bow, which was made of fine steel;
and after I did break my bow, behold, my brethren were angry with
me because of the loss of my bow, for we did obtain no food.
And it came to pass that we did return without food to our
families, and being much fatigued, because of their journeying,
they did suffer much for the want of food.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel and the sons of
Ishmael did begin to murmur exceedingly, because of their
sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness; and also my father
began to murmur against the Lord his God; yea, and they were all
exceedingly sorrowful, even that they did murmur against the
Lord.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted with
my brethren because of the loss of my bow, and their bows having
lost their springs, it began to be exceedingly difficult, yea,
insomuch that we could obtain no food.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did speak much unto my
brethren, because they had hardened their hearts again, even unto
complaining against the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make out of wood a
bow, and out of a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I did arm
myself with a bow and an arrow, with a sling and with stones.
And I said unto my father: Whither shall I go to obtain food?
And it came to pass that he did inquire of the Lord, for they
had humbled themselves because of my words; for I did say many
things unto them in the energy of my soul.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father; and he was truly chastened because of his murmuring
against the Lord, insomuch that he was brought down into the
depths of sorrow.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord said unto him:
Look upon the ball, and behold the things which are written.
And it came to pass that when my father beheld the things
which were written upon the ball, he did fear and tremble
exceedingly, and also my brethren and the sons of Ishmael and our
wives.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the pointers which
were in the ball, that they did work according to the faith and
diligence and heed which we did give unto them.
And there was also written upon them a new writing, which was
plain to be read, which did give us understanding concerning the
ways of the Lord; and it was written and changed from time to
time, according to the faith and diligence which we gave unto it.
And thus we see that by small means the Lord can bring about
great things.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did go forth up into the
top of the mountain, according to the directions which were given
upon the ball.
And it came to pass that I did slay wild beasts, insomuch
that I did obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that I did return to our tents, bearing
the beasts which I had slain; and now when they beheld that I had
obtained food, how great was their joy! And it came to pass that
they did humble themselves before the Lord, and did give thanks
unto him.
And it came to pass that we did again take our journey,
traveling nearly the same course as in the beginning; and after
we had traveled for the space of many days we did pitch our tents
again, that we might tarry for the space of a time.
And it came to pass that Ishmael died, and was buried in the
place which was called Nahom.
And it came to pass that the daughters of Ishmael did mourn
exceedingly, because of the loss of their father, and because of
their afflictions in the wilderness; and they did murmur against
my father, because he had brought them out of the land of
Jerusalem, saying: Our father is dead; yea, and we have wandered
much in the wilderness, and we have suffered much affliction,
hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and after all these sufferings we
must perish in the wilderness with hunger.
And thus they did murmur against my father, and also against
me; and they were desirous to return again to Jerusalem.
And Laman said unto Lemuel and also unto the sons of Ishmael:
Behold, let us slay our father, and also our brother Nephi, who
has taken it upon him to be our ruler and our teacher, who are
his elder brethren.
Now, he says that the Lord has talked with him, and also that
angels have ministered unto him. But behold, we know that he
lies unto us; and he tells us these things, and he worketh many
things by his cunning arts, that he may deceive our eyes,
thinking, perhaps, that he may lead us away into some strange
wilderness; and after he has led us away, he has thought to make
himself a king and a ruler over us, that he may do with us
according to his will and pleasure. And after this manner did my
brother Laman stir up their hearts to anger.
And it came to pass that the Lord was with us, yea, even the
voice of the Lord came and did speak many words unto them, and
did chasten them exceedingly; and after they were chastened by
the voice of the Lord they did turn away their anger, and did
repent of their sins, insomuch that the Lord did bless us again
with food, that we did not perish.
And it came to pass that we did again take our journey in the
wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward from that time
forth. And we did travel and wade through much affliction in the
wilderness; and our women did bear children in the wilderness.
And so great were the blessings of the Lord upon us, that
while we did live upon raw meat in the wilderness, our women did
give plenty of suck for their children, and were strong, yea,
even like unto the men; and they began to bear their journeyings
without murmurings.
And thus we see that the commandments of God must be
fulfilled. And if it so be that the children of men keep the
commandments of God he doth nourish them, and strengthen them,
and provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he
has commanded them; wherefore, he did provide means for us while
we did sojourn in the wilderness.
And we did sojourn for the space of many years, yea, even
eight years in the wilderness.
And we did come to the land which we called Bountiful, because
of its much fruit and also wild honey; and all these things were
prepared of the Lord that we might not perish. And we beheld the
sea, which we called Irreantum, which, being interpreted, is many
waters.
And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the
seashore; and notwithstanding we had suffered many afflictions
and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write them
all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the seashore;
and we called the place Bountiful, because of its much fruit.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land
of Bountiful for the space of many days, the voice of the Lord
came unto me, saying: Arise, and get thee into the mountain. And
it came to pass that I arose and went up into the mountain, and
cried unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Thou
shalt construct a ship, after the manner which I shall show thee,
that I may carry thy people across these waters.
And I said: Lord, whither shall I go that I may find ore to
molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship after the
manner which thou hast shown unto me?
And it came to pass that the Lord told me whither I should go
to find ore, that I might make tools.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did make a bellows
wherewith to blow the fire, of the skins of beasts; and after I
had made a bellows, that I might have wherewith to blow the fire,
I did smite two stones together that I might make fire.
For the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make
much fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he said: I will
make thy food become sweet, that ye cook it not;
And I will also be your light in the wilderness; and I will
prepare the way before you, if it so be that ye shall keep my
commandments; wherefore, inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments ye shall be led towards the promised land; and ye
shall know that it is by me that ye are led.
Yea, and the Lord said also that: After ye have arrived in
the promised land, ye shall know that I, the Lord, am God; and
that I, the Lord, did deliver you from destruction; yea, that I
did bring you out of the land of Jerusalem.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did strive to keep the commandments of
the Lord, and I did exhort my brethren to faithfulness and
diligence.
And it came to pass that I did make tools of the ore which I
did molten out of the rock.
And when my brethren saw that I was about to build a ship,
they began to murmur against me, saying: Our brother is a fool,
for he thinketh that he can build a ship; yea, and he also
thinketh that he can cross these great waters.
And thus my brethren did complain against me, and were
desirous that they might not labor, for they did not believe that
I could build a ship; neither would they believe that I was
instructed of the Lord.
And now it came to pass that I, Nephi, was exceedingly
sorrowful because of the hardness of their hearts; and now when
they saw that I began to be sorrowful they were glad in their
hearts, insomuch that they did rejoice over me, saying: We knew
that ye could not construct a ship, for we knew that ye were
lacking in judgment; wherefore, thou canst not accomplish so
great a work.
And thou art like unto our father, led away by the foolish
imaginations of his heart; yea, he hath led us out of the land of
Jerusalem, and we have wandered in the wilderness for these many
years; and our women have toiled, being big with child; and they
have borne children in the wilderness and suffered all things,
save it were death; and it would have been better that they had
died before they came out of Jerusalem than to have suffered
these afflictions.
Behold, these many years we have suffered in the wilderness,
which time we might have enjoyed our possessions and the land of
our inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy.
And we know that the people who were in the land of Jerusalem
were a righteous people; for they kept the statutes and judgments
of the Lord, and all his commandments, according to the law of
Moses; wherefore, we know that they are a righteous people; and
our father hath judged them, and hath led us away because we
would hearken unto his words; yea, and our brother is like unto
him. And after this manner of language did my brethren murmur
and complain against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them, saying:
Do ye believe that our fathers, who were the children of Israel,
would have been led away out of the hands of the Egyptians if
they had not hearkened unto the words of the Lord?
Yea, do ye suppose that they would have been led out of
bondage, if the Lord had not commanded Moses that he should lead
them out of bondage?
Now ye know that the children of Israel were in bondage; and
ye know that they were laden with tasks, which were grievous to
be borne; wherefore, ye know that it must needs be a good thing
for them, that they should be brought out of bondage.
Now ye know that Moses was commanded of the Lord to do that
great work; and ye know that by his word the waters of the Red
Sea were divided hither and thither, and they passed through on
dry ground.
But ye know that the Egyptians were drowned in the Red Sea,
who were the armies of Pharaoh.
And ye also know that they were fed with manna in the
wilderness.
Yea, and ye also know that Moses, by his word according to
the power of God which was in him, smote the rock, and there came
forth water, that the children of Israel might quench their
thirst.
And notwithstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their
Redeemer, going before them, leading them by day and giving light
unto them by night, and doing all things for them which were
expedient for man to receive, they hardened their hearts and
blinded their minds, and reviled against Moses and against the
true and living God.
And it came to pass that according to his word he did destroy
them; and according to his word he did lead them; and according
to his word he did do all things for them; and there was not any
thing done save it were by his word.
And after they had crossed the river Jordan he did make them
mighty unto the driving out of the children of the land, yea,
unto the scattering them to destruction.
And now, do ye suppose that the children of this land, who
were in the land of promise, who were driven out by our fathers,
do ye suppose that they were righteous? Behold, I say unto you,
Nay.
Do ye suppose that our fathers would have been more choice
than they if they had been righteous? I say unto you, Nay.
Behold, the Lord esteemeth all flesh in one; he that is
righteous is favored of God. But behold, this people had
rejected every word of God, and they were ripe in iniquity; and
the fulness of the wrath of God was upon them; and the Lord did
curse the land against them, and bless it unto our fathers; yea,
he did curse it against them unto their destruction, and he did
bless it unto our fathers unto their obtaining power over it.
Behold, the Lord hath created the earth that it should be
inhabited; and he hath created his children that they should
possess it.
And he raiseth up a righteous nation, and destroyeth the
nations of the wicked.
And he leadeth away the righteous into precious lands, and
the wicked he destroyeth, and curseth the land unto them for
their sakes.
He ruleth high in the heavens, for it is his throne, and this
earth is his footstool.
And he loveth those who will have him to be their God.
Behold, he loved our fathers, and he covenanted with them, yea,
even Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; and he remembered the covenants
which he had made; wherefore, he did bring them out of the land
of Egypt.
And he did straiten them in the wilderness with his rod; for
they hardened their hearts, even as ye have; and the Lord
straitened them because of their iniquity. He sent fiery flying
serpents among them; and after they were bitten he prepared a way
that they might be healed; and the labor which they had to
perform was to look; and because of the simpleness of the way, or
the easiness of it, there were many who perished.
And they did harden their hearts from time to time, and they
did revile against Moses, and also against God; nevertheless, ye
know that they were led forth by his matchless power into the
land of promise.
And now, after all these things, the time has come that they
have become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripeness; and I know not but
they are at this day about to be destroyed; for I know that the
day must surely come that they must be destroyed, save a few
only, who shall be led away into captivity.
Wherefore, the Lord commanded my father that he should depart
into the wilderness; and the Jews also sought to take away his
life; yea, and ye also have sought to take away his life;
wherefore, ye are murderers in your hearts and ye are like unto
them.
Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord
your God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye
have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto
you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye
could not feel his words; wherefore, he has spoken unto you like
unto the voice of thunder, which did cause the earth to shake as
if it were to divide asunder.
And ye also know that by the power of his almighty word he
can cause the earth that it shall pass away; yea, and ye know
that by his word he can cause the rough places to be made smooth,
and smooth places shall be broken up. O, then, why is it, that
ye can be so hard in your hearts?
Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my
heart is pained; I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever.
Behold, I am full of the Spirit of God, insomuch that my frame
has no strength.
And now it came to pass that when I had spoken these words,
they were angry with me, and were desirous to throw me into the
depths of the sea; and as they came forth to lay their hands upon
me I spake unto them, saying: In the name of the Almighty God, I
command you that ye touch me not, for I am filled with the power
of God, even unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay
his hands upon me shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall
be as naught before the power of God, for God shall smite him.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them that they
should murmur no more against their father; neither should they
withhold their labor from me, for God had commanded me that I
should build a ship.
And I said unto them: If God had commanded me to do all
things I could do them. If he should command me that I should
say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I
should say it, it would be done.
And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so
many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot
instruct me, that I should build a ship?
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things unto my
brethren, insomuch that they were confounded and could not
contend against me; neither durst they lay their hands upon me
nor touch me with their fingers, even for the space of many days.
Now they durst not do this lest they should wither before me, so
powerful was the Spirit of God; and thus it had wrought upon
them.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: Stretch forth
thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall not wither
before thee, but I will shock them, saith the Lord, and this will
I do, that they may know that I am the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand unto my
brethren, and they did not wither before me; but the Lord did
shake them, even according to the word which he had spoken.
And now, they said: We know of a surety that the Lord is with
thee, for we know that it is the power of the Lord that has
shaken us. And they fell down before me, and were about to
worship me, but I would not suffer them, saying: I am thy
brother, yea, even thy younger brother; wherefore, worship the
Lord thy God, and honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long in the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee.
And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and did go
forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious workmanship.
And the Lord did show me from time to time after what manner I
should work the timbers of the ship.
Now I, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the manner which
was learned by men, neither did I build the ship after the manner
of men; but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had
shown unto me; wherefore, it was not after the manner of men.
And I, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and I did pray oft
unto the Lord; wherefore the Lord showed unto me great things.
And it came to pass that after I had finished the ship,
according to the word of the Lord, my brethren beheld that it was
good, and that the workmanship thereof was exceedingly fine;
wherefore, they did humble themselves again before the Lord.
And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came unto my
father, that we should arise and go down into the ship.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, after we had prepared
all things, much fruits and meat from the wilderness, and honey
in abundance, and provisions according to that which the Lord had
commanded us, we did go down into the ship, with all our loading
and our seeds, and whatsoever thing we had brought with us, every
one according to his age; wherefore, we did all go down into the
ship, with our wives and our children.
And now, my father had begat two sons in the wilderness; the
elder was called Jacob and the younger Joseph.
And it came to pass after we had all gone down into the ship,
and had taken with us our provisions and things which had been
commanded us, we did put forth into the sea and were driven forth
before the wind towards the promised land.
And after we had been driven forth before the wind for the
space of many days, behold, my brethren and the sons of Ishmael
and also their wives began to make themselves merry, insomuch
that they began to dance, and to sing, and to speak with much
rudeness, yea, even that they did forget by what power they had
been brought thither; yea, they were lifted up unto exceeding
rudeness.
And I, Nephi, began to fear exceedingly lest the Lord should
be angry with us, and smite us because of our iniquity, that we
should be swallowed up in the depths of the sea; wherefore, I,
Nephi, began to speak to them with much soberness; but behold
they were angry with me, saying: We will not that our younger
brother shall be a ruler over us.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me and
bind me with cords, and they did treat me with much harshness;
nevertheless, the Lord did suffer it that he might show forth his
power, unto the fulfilling of his word which he had spoken
concerning the wicked.
And it came to pass that after they had bound me insomuch
that I could not move, the compass, which had been prepared of
the Lord, did cease to work.
Wherefore, they knew not whither they should steer the ship,
insomuch that there arose a great storm, yea, a great and
terrible tempest, and we were driven back upon the waters for the
space of three days; and they began to be frightened exceedingly
lest they should be drowned in the sea; nevertheless they did not
loose me.
And on the fourth day, which we had been driven back, the
tempest began to be exceedingly sore.
And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed up in
the depths of the sea. And after we had been driven back upon
the waters for the space of four days, my brethren began to see
that the judgments of God were upon them, and that they must
perish save that they should repent of their iniquities;
wherefore, they came unto me, and loosed the bands which were
upon my wrist, and behold they had swollen exceedingly; and also
mine ankles were much swollen, and great was the soreness
thereof.
Nevertheless, I did look unto my God, and I did praise him
all the day long; and I did not murmur against the Lord because
of mine afflictions.
Now my father, Lehi, had said many things unto them, and also
unto the sons of Ishmael; but, behold, they did breathe out much
threatenings against anyone that should speak for me; and my
parents being stricken in years, and having suffered much grief
because of their children, they were brought down, yea, even upon
their sick-beds.
Because of their grief and much sorrow, and the iniquity of
my brethren, they were brought near even to be carried out of
this time to meet their God; yea, their grey hairs were about to
be brought down to lie low in the dust; yea, even they were near
to be cast with sorrow into a watery grave.
And Jacob and Joseph also, being young, having need of much
nourishment, were grieved because of the afflictions of their
mother; and also my wife with her tears and prayers, and also my
children, did not soften the hearts of my brethren that they
would loose me.
And there was nothing save it were the power of God, which
threatened them with destruction, could soften their hearts;
wherefore, when they saw that they were about to be swallowed up
in the depths of the sea they repented of the thing which they
had done, insomuch that they loosed me.
And it came to pass after they had loosed me, behold, I took
the compass, and it did work whither I desired it. And it came
to pass that I prayed unto the Lord; and after I had prayed the
winds did cease, and the storm did cease, and there was a great
calm.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that
we sailed again towards the promised land.
And it came to pass that after we had sailed for the space of
many days we did arrive at the promised land; and we went forth
upon the land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the
promised land.
And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and
we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the
earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And it
came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore, we were
blessed in abundance.
And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of
promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were
beasts in the forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and
the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all
manner of wild animals, which were for the use of men. And we
did find all manner of ore, both of gold, and of silver, and of
copper.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me, wherefore I
did make plates of ore that I might engraven upon them the record
of my people. And upon the plates which I made I did engraven
the record of my father, and also our journeyings in the
wilderness, and the prophecies of my father; and also many of
mine own prophecies have I engraven upon them.
And I knew not at the time when I made them that I should be
commanded of the Lord to make these plates; wherefore, the record
of my father, and the genealogy of his fathers, and the more part
of all our proceedings in the wilderness are engraven upon those
first plates of which I have spoken; wherefore, the things which
transpired before I made these plates are, of a truth, more
particularly made mention upon the first plates.
And after I had made these plates by way of commandment, I,
Nephi, received a commandment that the ministry and the
prophecies, the more plain and precious parts of them, should be
written upon these plates; and that the things which were written
should be kept for the instruction of my people, who should
possess the land, and also for other wise purposes, which
purposes are known unto the Lord.
Wherefore, I, Nephi, did make a record upon the other plates,
which gives an account, or which gives a greater account of the
wars and contentions and destructions of my people. And this
have I done, and commanded my people what they should do after I
was gone; and that these plates should be handed down from one
generation to another, or from one prophet to another, until
further commandments of the Lord.
And an account of my making these plates shall be given
hereafter; and then, behold, I proceed according to that which I
have spoken; and this I do that the more sacred things may be
kept for the knowledge of my people.
Nevertheless, I do not write anything upon plates save it be
that I think it be sacred. And now, if I do err, even did they
err of old; not that I would excuse myself because of other men,
but because of the weakness which is in me, according to the
flesh, I would excuse myself.
For the things which some men esteem to be of great worth,
both to the body and soul, others set at naught and trample under
their feet. Yea, even the very God of Israel do men trample
under their feet; I say, trample under their feet but I would
speak in other words--they set him at naught, and hearken not to
the voice of his counsels.
And behold he cometh, according to the words of the angel, in
six hundred years from the time my father left Jerusalem.
And the world, because of their iniquity, shall judge him to
be a thing of naught; wherefore they scourge him, and he
suffereth it; and they smite him, and he suffereth it. Yea, they
spit upon him, and he suffereth it, because of his loving
kindness and his long-suffering towards the children of men.
And the God of our fathers, who were led out of Egypt, out of
bondage, and also were preserved in the wilderness by him, yea,
the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, yieldeth
himself, according to the words of the angel, as a man, into the
hands of wicked men, to be lifted up, according to the words of
Zenock, and to be crucified, according to the words of Neum, and
to be buried in a sepulchre, according to the words of Zenos,
which he spake concerning the three days of darkness, which
should be a sign given of his death unto those who should inhabit
the isles of the sea, more especially given unto those who are of
the house of Israel.
For thus spake the prophet: The Lord God surely shall visit
all the house of Israel at that day, some with his voice, because
of their righteousness, unto their great joy and salvation, and
others with the thunderings and the lightnings of his power, by
tempest, by fire, and by smoke, and vapor of darkness, and by the
opening of the earth, and by mountains which shall be carried up.
And all these things must surely come, saith the prophet
Zenos. And the rocks of the earth must rend; and because of the
groanings of the earth, many of the kings of the isles of the sea
shall be wrought upon by the Spirit of God, to exclaim: The God
of nature suffers.
And as for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet,
they shall be scourged by all people, because they crucify the
God of Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and
wonders, and the power and glory of the God of Israel.
And because they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet,
and have despised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in
the flesh, and perish, and become a hiss and a byword, and be
hated among all nations.
Nevertheless, when that day cometh, saith the prophet, that
they no more turn aside their hearts against the Holy One of
Israel, then will he remember the covenants which he made to
their fathers.
Yea, then will he remember the isles of the sea; yea, and all
the people who are of the house of Israel, will I gather in,
saith the Lord, according to the words of the prophet Zenos, from
the four quarters of the earth.
Yea, and all the earth shall see the salvation of the Lord,
saith the prophet; every nation, kindred, tongue and people shall
be blessed.
And I, Nephi, have written these things unto my people, that
perhaps I might persuade them that they would remember the Lord
their Redeemer.
Wherefore, I speak unto all the house of Israel, if it so be
that they should obtain these things.
For behold, I have workings in the spirit, which doth weary
me even that all my joints are weak, for those who are at
Jerusalem; for had not the Lord been merciful, to show unto me
concerning them, even as he had prophets of old, I should have
perished also.
And he surely did show unto the prophets of old all things
concerning them; and also he did show unto many concerning us;
wherefore, it must needs be that we know concerning them for they
are written upon the plates of brass.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my brethren
these things; and it came to pass that I did read many things to
them, which were engraven upon the plates of brass, that they
might know concerning the doings of the Lord in other lands,
among people of old.
And I did read many things unto them which were written in
the books of Moses; but that I might more fully persuade them to
believe in the Lord their Redeemer I did read unto them that
which was written by the prophet Isaiah; for I did liken all
scriptures unto us, that it might be for our profit and learning.
Wherefore I spake unto them, saying: Hear ye the words of the
prophet, ye who are a remnant of the house of Israel, a branch
who have been broken off; hear ye the words of the prophet, which
were written unto all the house of Israel, and liken them unto
yourselves, that ye may have hope as well as your brethren from
whom ye have been broken off; for after this manner has the
prophet written.
Hearken and hear this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the
name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, or
out of the waters of baptism, who swear by the name of the Lord,
and make mention of the God of Israel, yet they swear not in
truth nor in righteousness.
Nevertheless, they call themselves of the holy city, but they
do not stay themselves upon the God of Israel, who is the Lord of
Hosts; yea, the Lord of Hosts is his name.
Behold, I have declared the former things from the beginning;
and they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them. I did
show them suddenly.
And I did it because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy
neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;
And I have even from the beginning declared to thee; before it
came to pass I showed them thee; and I showed them for fear lest
thou shouldst say--mine idol hath done them, and my graven image,
and my molten image hath commanded them.
Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will ye not declare
them? And that I have showed thee new things from this time,
even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.
They are created now, and not from the beginning, even before
the day when thou heardest them not they were declared unto thee,
lest thou shouldst say--Behold I knew them.
Yea, and thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from
that time thine ear was not opened; for I knew that thou wouldst
deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the
womb.
Nevertheless, for my name's sake will I defer mine anger, and
for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off.
For, behold, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the
furnace of affliction.
For mine own sake, yea, for mine own sake will I do this, for
I will not suffer my name to be polluted, and I will not give my
glory unto another.
Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called, for I am he;
I am the first, and I am also the last.
Mine hand hath also laid the foundation of the earth, and my
right hand hath spanned the heavens. I call unto them and they
stand up together.
All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; who among them hath
declared these things unto them? The Lord hath loved him; yea,
and he will fulfill his word which he hath declared by them; and
he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall come upon
the Chaldeans.
Also, saith the Lord; I the Lord, yea, I have spoken; yea, I
have called him to declare, I have brought him, and he shall make
his way prosperous.
Come ye near unto me; I have not spoken in secret; from the
beginning, from the time that it was declared have I spoken; and
the Lord God, and his Spirit, hath sent me.
And thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of
Israel; I have sent him, the Lord thy God who teacheth thee to
profit, who leadeth thee by the way thou shouldst go, hath done
it.
O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments--then had thy
peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the
sea.
Thy seed also had been as the sand; the offspring of thy
bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut
off nor destroyed from before me.
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a
voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end of the
earth; say ye: The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob.
And they thirsted not; he led them through the deserts; he
caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he clave the
rock also and the waters gushed out.
And notwithstanding he hath done all this, and greater also,
there is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.
And again: Hearken, O ye house of Israel, all ye that are
broken off and are driven out because of the wickedness of the
pastors of my people; yea, all ye that are broken off, that are
scattered abroad, who are of my people, O house of Israel.
Listen, O isles, unto me, and hearken ye people from far; the
Lord hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother
hath he made mention of my name.
And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of
his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his
quiver hath he hid me;
And said unto me: Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I
will be glorified.
Then I said, I have labored in vain, I have spent my strength
for naught and in vain; surely my judgment is with the Lord, and
my work with my God.
And now, saith the Lord--that formed me from the womb that I
should be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him--though Israel
be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the Lord,
and my God shall be my strength.
And he said: It is a light thing that thou shouldst be my
servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the
preserved of Israel. I will also give thee for a light to the
Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the
earth.
Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to
him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to
servant of rulers: Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall
worship, because of the Lord that is faithful.
Thus saith the Lord: In an acceptable time have I heard thee,
O isles of the sea, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee;
and I will preserve thee, and give thee my servant for a covenant
of the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the
desolate heritages;
That thou mayest say to the prisoners: Go forth; to them that
sit in darkness: Show yourselves. They shall feed in the ways,
and their pastures shall be in all high places.
They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor
the sun smite them; for he that hath mercy on them shall lead
them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them.
And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall
be exalted.
And then, O house of Israel, behold, these shall come from
far; and lo, these from the north and from the west; and these
from the land of Sinim.
Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of
those who are in the east shall be established; and break forth
into singing, O mountains; for they shall be smitten no more; for
the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his
afflicted.
But, behold, Zion hath said: The Lord hath forsaken me, and
my Lord hath forgotten me--but he will show that he hath not.
For can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not
have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget,
yet will I not forget thee, O house of Israel.
Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy
walls are continually before me.
Thy children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and
they that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.
Lift up thine eyes round about and behold; all these gather
themselves together, and they shall come to thee. And as I live,
saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as
with an ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.
For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the
inhabitants; and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.
The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the
first, shall again in thine ears say: The place is too strait for
me; give place to me that I may dwell.
Then shalt thou say in thine heart: Who hath begotten me
these, seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a
captive, and removing to and fro? And who hath brought up these?
Behold, I was left alone; these, where have they been?
Thus saith the Lord God: Behold, I will lift up mine hand to
the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people; and they
shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be
carried upon their shoulders.
And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers; they shall bow down to thee with their face
towards the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou
shalt know that I am the Lord; for they shall not be ashamed that
wait for me.
For shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful
captives delivered?
But thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty
shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be
delivered; for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee,
and I will save thy children.
And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh;
they shall be drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine;
and all flesh shall know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy
Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had read these
things which were engraven upon the plates of brass, my brethren
came unto me and said unto me: What meaneth these things which ye
have read? Behold, are they to be understood according to things
which are spiritual, which shall come to pass according to the
spirit and not the flesh?
And I, Nephi, said unto them: Behold they were manifest unto
the prophet by the voice of the Spirit; for by the Spirit are all
things made known unto the prophets, which shall come upon the
children of men according to the flesh.
Wherefore, the things of which I have read are things
pertaining to things both temporal and spiritual; for it appears
that the house of Israel, sooner or later, will be scattered upon
all the face of the earth, and also among all nations.
And behold, there are many who are already lost from the
knowledge of those who are at Jerusalem. Yea, the more part of
all the tribes have been led away; and they are scattered to and
fro upon the isles of the sea; and whither they are none of us
knoweth, save that we know that they have been led away.
And since they have been led away, these things have been
prophesied concerning them, and also concerning all those who
shall hereafter be scattered and be confounded, because of the
Holy One of Israel; for against him will they harden their
hearts; wherefore, they shall be scattered among all nations and
shall be hated of all men.
Nevertheless, after they shall be nursed by the Gentiles, and
the Lord has lifted up his hand upon the Gentiles and set them up
for a standard, and their children have been carried in their
arms, and their daughters have been carried upon their shoulders,
behold these things of which are spoken are temporal; for thus
are the covenants of the Lord with our fathers; and it meaneth us
in the days to come, and also all our brethren who are of the
house of Israel.
And it meaneth that the time cometh that after all the house
of Israel have been scattered and confounded, that the Lord God
will raise up a mighty nation among the Gentiles, yea, even upon
the face of this land; and by them shall our seed be scattered.
And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to
do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great
worth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto their being
nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and
upon their shoulders.
And it shall also be of worth unto the Gentiles; and not only
unto the Gentiles but unto all the house of Israel, unto the
making known of the covenants of the Father of heaven unto
Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth
be blessed.
And I would, my brethren, that ye should know that all the
kindreds of the earth cannot be blessed unless he shall make bare
his arm in the eyes of the nations.
Wherefore, the Lord God will proceed to make bare his arm in
the eyes of all the nations, in bringing about his covenants and
his gospel unto those who are of the house of Israel.
Wherefore, he will bring them again out of captivity, and
they shall be gathered together to the lands of their
inheritance; and they shall be brought out of obscurity and out
of darkness; and they shall know that the Lord is their Savior
and their Redeemer, the Mighty One of Israel.
And the blood of that great and abominable church, which is
the whore of all the earth, shall turn upon their own heads; for
they shall war among themselves, and the sword of their own hands
shall fall upon their own heads, and they shall be drunken with
their own blood.
And every nation which shall war against thee, O house of
Israel, shall be turned one against another, and they shall fall
into the pit which they digged to ensnare the people of the Lord.
And all that fight against Zion shall be destroyed, and that
great whore, who hath perverted the right ways of the Lord, yea,
that great and abominable church, shall tumble to the dust and
great shall be the fall of it.
For behold, saith the prophet, the time cometh speedily that
Satan shall have no more power over the hearts of the children of
men; for the day soon cometh that all the proud and they who do
wickedly shall be as stubble; and the day cometh that they must
be burned.
For the time soon cometh that the fulness of the wrath of God
shall be poured out upon all the children of men; for he will not
suffer that the wicked shall destroy the righteous.
Wherefore, he will preserve the righteous by his power, even
if it so be that the fulness of his wrath must come, and the
righteous be preserved, even unto the destruction of their
enemies by fire. Wherefore, the righteous need not fear; for
thus saith the prophet, they shall be saved, even if it so be as
by fire.
Behold, my brethren, I say unto you, that these things must
shortly come; yea, even blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke must
come; and it must needs be upon the face of this earth; and it
cometh unto men according to the flesh if it so be that they will
harden their hearts against the Holy One of Israel.
For behold, the righteous shall not perish; for the time
surely must come that all they who fight against Zion shall be
cut off.
And the Lord will surely prepare a way for his people, unto
the fulfilling of the words of Moses, which he spake, saying: A
prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, like unto me;
him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
And it shall come to pass that all those who will not hear that
prophet shall be cut off from among the people.
And now I, Nephi, declare unto you, that this prophet of whom
Moses spake was the Holy One of Israel; wherefore, he shall
execute judgment in righteousness.
And the righteous need not fear, for they are those who shall
not be confounded. But it is the kingdom of the devil, which
shall be built up among the children of men, which kingdom is
established among them which are in the flesh--
For the time speedily shall come that all churches which are
built up to get gain, and all those who are built up to get power
over the flesh, and those who are built up to become popular in
the eyes of the world, and those who seek the lusts of the flesh
and the things of the world, and to do all manner of iniquity;
yea, in fine, all those who belong to the kingdom of the devil
are they who need fear, and tremble, and quake; they are those
who must be brought low in the dust; they are those who must be
consumed as stubble; and this is according to the words of the
prophet.
And the time cometh speedily that the righteous must be led
up as calves of the stall, and the Holy One of Israel must reign
in dominion, and might, and power, and great glory.
And he gathereth his children from the four quarters of the
earth; and he numbereth his sheep, and they know him; and there
shall be one fold and one shepherd; and he shall feed his sheep,
and in him they shall find pasture.
And because of the righteousness of his people, Satan has no
power; wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the space of many
years; for he hath no power over the hearts of the people, for
they dwell in righteousness, and the Holy One of Israel reigneth.
And now behold, I, Nephi, say unto you that all these things
must come according to the flesh.
But, behold, all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people shall
dwell safely in the Holy One of Israel if it so be that they will
repent.
And now I, Nephi, make an end; for I durst not speak further
as yet concerning these things.
Wherefore, my brethren, I would that ye should consider that
the things which have been written upon the plates of brass are
true; and they testify that a man must be obedient to the
commandments of God.
Wherefore, ye need not suppose that I and my father are the
only ones that have testified, and also taught them. Wherefore,
if ye shall be obedient to the commandments, and endure to the
end, ye shall be saved at the last day. And thus it is. Amen.
We'll build the wall.  Don't even think about it.  Don't even think about it.  Don't even think about it.  That's an easy one.  We're going to build the wall.  We need the wall.
I said to General Kelly, how important is it?  He said, very important.  It's that final element.  We need the wall.  And it's a wall in certain areas.  Obviously, where you have these massive physical structures you don't need, and we have certain big rivers and all.  But we need a wall, and we're going to get that wall.
And the world is getting the message.  They know that our border is no longer open to illegal immigration, and that if you try to break in, you'll be caught and you'll be returned to your home.  You're not staying any longer.  And if you keep coming back illegally after deportation, you will be arrested, prosecuted, and you will put behind bars.  Otherwise it will never end.
Let's also remember that immigration security is national security.  We've seen the attacks from 9/11 to Boston to San Bernardino.  Hundreds of individuals from other countries have been charged with terrorism-related offenses in the United States.
We spend billions and billions of dollars on security all over the world, but then we allow radical Islamic terrorists to enter right through our front door.  That's not going to happen anymore.  It's time to get tough.  It's time we finally got smart.  And yes, it's also time to put America first.
And perhaps -- I see all of those beautiful red and white hats --- but we will never forget our favorite slogan of them all:  Make America Great Again.  All right?
Keeping our communities safe and protecting our freedoms also requires the cooperation of our state leaders.  We have some incredible pro-Second Amendment governors here at the NRA conference, including Governor Scott of Florida.  Where is Governor Scott?  Great guy doing a great job.  Governor Bryant of Mississippi.  What a wonderful place.  Governor Bryant is here.  Thank you.  Governor Deal of Georgia.  And we're also joined by two people that -- well, one I loved right from the beginning; the other one I really liked, didn't like, and now like a lot again.  Does that make sense?  Senator David Perdue -- he was from the beginning -- and Senator Ted Cruz -- like, dislike, like.  Where are they?  Good guys.  Good guys.  Smart cookies.
Each of these leaders knows that public officials must serve under the Constitution, not above it.  We all took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States -- and that means defending the Second Amendment.
So let me make a simple promise to every one of the freedom-loving Americans in the audience today:  As your President, I will never, ever infringe on the right of the people to keep and bear arms.  Never ever.  Freedom is not a gift from government.  Freedom is a gift from God.
It was this conviction that stirred the heart of a great American patriot on that day, April, 242 years ago. It was the day that Paul Revere spread his Lexington alarm -- the famous warning that "the British are coming, the British are coming." Right?  You've all heard that, right?  The British are coming.
Now we have other people trying to come, but believe me, they're not going to be successful.  That I can tell you.  Nothing changes, right, folks?  Nothing changes.  They are not going to be successful.  There will be serious hurt on them, not on us.
Next, came the shot heard around the world, and then a rag-tag army of God-fearing farmers, frontiersmen, shopkeepers, merchants that stood up to the most powerful army at that time on Earth.  The most powerful army on Earth.  But we sometimes forget what inspired those everyday farmers and workers in that great war for independence.
Many years after the war, a young man asked Captain Levi Preston, aged 91, why he'd fought alongside his neighbors at Concord.  Was it the Stamp Act?  Was it the Tea Tax?  Was it a work of philosophy?  "No," the old veteran replied. Then why? he was asked.  Young man, the Captain said, what we meant in going for those Redcoats was this:  We always had governed ourselves, and we always meant to" govern ourselves.
Captain Preston's words are a reminder of what this organization and my administration are all about:  the right of a sovereign people to govern their own affairs, and govern them properly.  We don't want any longer to be ruled by the bureaucrats in Washington, or in any other country for that matter.  In America, we are ruled by our citizens.  We are ruled by each and every one of you.
But we can't be complacent.  These are dangerous times.  These are horrible times for certain obvious reasons.  But we're going to make them great times again.  Every day, we are up against those who would take away our freedoms, restrict our liberties, and even those who want to abolish the Second Amendment.  We must be vigilant.  And I know you are all up to the task.
Since the first generation of Americans stood strong at Concord, each generation to follow has answered the call to defend freedom in their time.  That is why we are here today:  To defend freedom for our children.  To defend the liberty of all Americans.  And to defend the right of a free and sovereign people to keep and bear arms.
I greatly appreciated your support on November 8th , in what will hopefully be one of the most important and positive elections for the United States of all time.  And to the NRA, I can proudly say I will never, ever let you down.
Thank you.  God Bless you.  God Bless our Constitution, and God bless America.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.
Thank you, everybody, thank you. I didn't know that Melania was going to be saying the Lord's Prayer, but I thought that was very beautiful, thank you, thank you.
It's so great to be here in Florida. My second home with you. This is a state I truly love. This is a state where we all had great victory together. Thank you.
It's now been a month since my inauguration. And I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in making America great again. I'm also here to tell you about our plans for the future and they're big and they're bold and It's what our country is all about, believe me.
I'm here because I want to be among my friends and among the people. This was a great movement, a movement like has never been seen before in our country our probably anywhere else. This was a truly great movement And I want to be here with you, and I will always be with you. I promise you that. I want to be in a room filled with hard working American patriots who love their country, who salute their flag and who pray for a better future.
I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. The dishonest media which has published one false story after another with no sources, even though they pretend they have them, they make them up in many cases, they just don't want to report the truth and they've been calling us wrong now for two years. They don't get it. By they're starting to get it. I can tell you that. They've become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system. Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln and many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out often times on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that. They don't get away with it.
They have their own agenda and their agenda is not your agenda. In fact, Thomas Jefferson said, nothing can be believed which is seen in a newspaper. Truth itself, he said, becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle, that was June 14, my birthday, 1807. But despite all their lies, misrepresentations, and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries, and they could not defeat us in the general election, and we will continue to expose them for what they are, and most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win.
We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people and we will make our own choices.
We are here today to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I hear your demands, I hear your voices and I promise you I will deliver. I promise that. And by the way, you've seen what we've accomplished in a very short period of time. The White House is running so smoothly. So smoothly. And believe me, I and we inherited one big mess. That I can tell you, but I know that you want safe neighborhoods where the streets belong to families and communities, not gang members and drug dealers who are right now as I speak being thrown out of the country and they will not be let back in.
We will have strong borders again, and I mean that. You've seen it in television. You've seen it on television. General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, he's really doing the job. You're seeing it. The gang members, bad, bad people. I said day one, and they're going out. Or they're being put in prison, but for the most part, get them the hell out of here. Bring them back to where they came from.
The fact is, you want great schools for your children. You want good high paying jobs for yourselves and for your loved ones and for the future of your families. You want a health care system and by the way, we are going to be submitting in a couple of weeks a great healthcare plan that's going to take the place of the disaster known as Obamacare.
It will be repealed and replaced. For those people. The people put into rooms where Republicans are talking about the plan, and it wouldn't matter what they say, for those people just so you understand, our plan will be much better health care at a much lower coast. Okay? Nothing to complain about. Obamacare remember, it is a disaster.
You want low cost American energy also, which means lifting the restrictions on oil, on shell, on natural gas and on clean, very clean coal. We're going to put the miners back to work. The miners go back to work.
You want us to enforce immigration laws and defend our borders.
You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We don't have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of the [inaudible] of our politicians. It's not going to happen any longer.
You want lower taxes. Less regulation. Millions of new jobs and more product stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, Made in the USA. You want to make it easy for companies to do business in America. And harder for companies to leave. We don't want companies saying, everybody is fired. We're moving to another country. We're going to make the product. Sell it across the border and isn't that wonderful. Not going happen anymore.
We're going to have strong borders and when they want to sell that product back across our border, they're going to pay a 35% tax and you know what, they're never going to leave. They will never, ever leave.
And you've seen that because I've already displayed it for the last two months even before I got into office. They're not leaving. And if they do, they're going to pay a big price for terminating the relationship with our workers. You want a government that serves the people not the donors and special interest. You want a government that keeps its promises.
A great spirit of optimism is sweeping and you see it. it's sweeping all across the country. Look at what's happening to the stock market. Look at what's happening to the every poll when it comes to optimism in our country. It's sweeping across the country. And, in fact, every day for the last long period of days this stock market means, companies, have been hitting new highs. They're going to start highs. It's going to be a new day in America. You're going to be proud again.
Jobs are already starting to pour back in. They're coming back in like you haven't seen in a long time. Ford, General Motors, Fiat, Chrysler are bringing in and bringing back thousands of jobs investing billions of dollars because of the new business climate that we are creating in our country. In Arizona, Intel, great company, just announced it will open a new plant that will create at least 10,000 brand new beautiful American jobs.
I followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP, we have just terminated our relationship to it. We're going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world, but they're going to be bilateral or as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quicksand. Get mired in and we can't do anything about it. By the way, NAFTA and so many others.
My administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. We're going to end it.
Within a few days of taking the oath of office, I've taken steps to begin the construction of the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines. Anywhere from 30-40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said, who makes the pipe? They said, sir, it can be made anywhere. I said not anymore. I put a little clause in the bottom. The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if we're going to have pine line.
We believe in two simple rules. I can tell you everybody in this massive, this is a massive hanger. For the big planes. And by the way, do you think that one media group back there, one network will show this crowd. Not one. Not one. They won't show the crowd. You know, coming in on the plane, and that plane represented so much.
And just so you know, they were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One. Can you believe this? I said no way. I said I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. I refuse. So I got Boeing and it is actually  a lot of people don't know. The Air Force One project is actually two planes. Why they need to planes, we'll have to talk about that, but they have two planes, but we've got that price down over a billion dollars and I probably have it spoken to be honest with you for honest probably an more than an hour on the project. I got the generals in who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. I told Boeing it's not good enough. We're still not going to do it. The price is still too high. On the fighter jet. We were hundreds of billions of dollars over budget. Seven years late, great plane. A great plane.
So think of it. They're seven years late. Hundreds of billions of dollars over-budget. Other than that by the way the project is going extremely well. And I got the folks in from Lockheed Martin who are terrific people and a terrific product by the way. I also got Boeing in. I said do me a favor, give me a competing offer. And now they're competing and fighting and we've gotten hundreds of millions of dollars off the price of a plane that was going to be ordered, in other words, if my opponent got in, there would have been no calls made to them. They would have signed contracts. So they're going to make plenty of money, but it's going to be a lot less than they would have made without Trump. That I can tell you. You might as well know about it. Nobody talks. By the way, that's for fighter jets. One of the biggest orders in the history of aviation. The order for the F-35. You've been reading about it because it was a disaster. Under the last administration. A disaster. And now we have it running beautifully.
In fact, when the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Abe, was great. Great guy. When he came over, he said, thank you. I said for what. You saved us many, many millions of dollars on the F-35 fighter jet. Because when I negotiated, I took our allies into the same negotiation. So the first thing he did was thanked med for saving them money and that's good. Okay. That's good. I know the media will never thank me so at least Japan is thanking me, right?
But we believe in two simple rules. Buy American and hire American. We believe it. We've just issued a new order which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. And by the way, a new director was just approved. Can you imagine the length of time it's taken to Democrats and I actually think it's an embarrassment to them, but this is getting in to be record setting time. Incredible people.
Scott Pruitt was just approved, just now approved for the Environmental Protection Agency. He'll do so good. He won't have projects going ten and 12 years and getting rejected. They may be rejected, but they'll be rejected quickly. For the most part, they're going to be accepted. They're going to be environmentally friendly and he is going to be a great Secretary. He will be amazing. We're very happy. That took place yesterday. That's going to be a big difference because they were clogging up the veins of our country with the environmental impact statements and all of the rules and regulations. It was impossible to navigate for companies.
And what did it really mean? Forget about the companies? What did it mean. It meant no jobs. It meant companies leaving our country and going to foreign countries to do things they would rather do here. So we're going to have a whole big situation. We are going to unfreeze all of those companies. They are going to be  they're going have freedom. Be able to build what they want to build. It will be environmentally friendly and we're going to start producing jobs like you've never seen before. That's going to happen. That was a big thing.
We're standing up for the incredible men and women always of law enforcement. We're standing up. And I can tell you, the military and law enforcement they stood up. I don't say for me. I'm the messenger folks. I'm the messenger. They stood up for us in this last election. We got numbers that nobody believed were possible from law enforcement and from military. Basically people they wear uniforms like us. Isn't that nice. I saw this man on TV just now, you. I just saw him on television. He said I love Trump. Let Trump do what he has to do. That's my guy right there. Come here. Come here. No, I just. I'm coming in. That's okay.
Let him up. I'm not worried about him. I'm only worried he's going to give me a kiss. I'm not worried about anything else. This guy is so great. He was one of many people. They're interviewing people in the line. And I have to say, there was a tiny group of protesters out there and they were given as much publicity as this massive room packed with people, but they interviewed this man. Come on up here. Come on up. Guy was great. Hop over the fence. Come on. He can do it. He's in good shape. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on. This guy is great. Don't worry about him. No, no. Come here. They're going to  come on up. Come here.
This guy. So he's been all over television saying the best things and I see him standing and didn't you get here at like 4 in the morning.
Say a couple of words to this crowd.
A star is born.
I wouldn't say that Secret Service was thrilled with that, but we know our people, right? We know our people. Great guy. And so many others. I see some others. Being interviewed. I see them over here. They started. They came at 4 in the morning. The media will give them no credit. The media, as I told you, won't show this crowd.
All the way outside of this  this is a big a hanger as you get. All the way outside. Way back to the fences. Amazing. I want to thank you, but I want to thank everybody.
I've directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs, and police from crimes of violence against them. We will work with our police not against our police, our police do a great job and they've never been troubled like they're troubled now. It's very unfair what's happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement. We will always protect those who protect us.
We've directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including our inner cities. We're going to make our inner cities safe again. Look at what's going on. Look at what's happening in Chicago. Hundreds of shootings, hundreds of deaths. I'll tell you what's happening in Chicago and many other places. Safety is a civil right. And we will fight to make America totally safe again.
I've ordered the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy transnational criminal cartels which are all over the United States and we are going to stop the drugs from pours into your country, into your community, into your cities and poisoning our youth. We're stopping it. We're stopping it. We've taken historic action to secure the southern border and I've ordered the construction of a great border wall, which will start very shortly.
And I've taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country. So you probably read where we want to enforce the laws as existing. And so we signed an order a couple of weeks ago, and it was taken over by a court originally by a judge and then a  yes, it's very sad. The reason is for protection and safety. So the statute is so plain and so clear.
I said last week, I was speaking to a great group of sheriffs, the sheriffs group in Washington, and I said if you have a college education, you can understand its. If you have a high school education, you can understand it. If you were a bad student in high school, you can understand it.
I was told. I'll check, but I found it hard to believe, over 30-page decision by the appellate court. Three judges. And you could tell by the way they were reacting because it was broadcast on television. Everything we do gets a lot of people watching. So you could tell by the way that phone call went, wasn't looking good. When they wrote their decision, as I understand it. Maybe I'm wrong.
They didn't write the statute they were making the decision about because every word of the statute is a total kill for the other side. So I thought I would read it. And here's what it says. This is what it says: Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens into the United States  okay. So essentially. Whenever somebody comes into the United States. Right.
If it would be detrimental to the interest of the United States  okay. Now you know the country's we're talking about and these were countries picked by Obama. They weren't even picked. They were picked by Obama.
He may, so the President may, by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary  now, because it should have said he or she, right. They were not politically correct when they drew this. In fact, that's the only thing that was actually wrong with it. He or she. I don't think the women care too much about that. Right? I don't think so. By the way, we did very well with women. You know, my wife said when some of these phony polls were put out, the CNN poll was so far off, the phony polls. When some of these, she said, what's wrong with you and women. We did very nicely with women. We did nicely with a lot of groups they didn't think we were going to do so nicely with. I guess we had to. That's why we're all here tonight. Right?
So and it goes, for such as he shall seem necessary suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants or impose on aliens any restriction he may deem to be appropriate. So basically it says the president has the right to keep people out if he feels it's not in the best interest of our country. Right? Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I listened to these judges talk and talk and talk. So unfair. So we'll be doing something over the next couple of days. We don't give up. We never give up.
We had a court that I disagree with. I disagree with big league  and by the way, whether you read it or whether you watch it on television when other lawyers come on, many of them can't even understand. They're saying how do you come up with that decision. It cannot be more simple. So they're ruling on what I just read you and they don't even quote it in their ruling because you can't because it's too obvious. So we will do something next week. I think you'll be impressed. Let's see what happens.
Here's the bottom line. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening in Germany, you look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we're going to keep our country safe.
And we all have heart, by the way. And what I want to do is build safe zones in Syria and other places so they can stay there and live safely until their cities and their country, that mess that I was left by Obama and everybody else  folks, we were left a mess like you wouldn't believe, but we're going to build safe zones. We're going to have those safe zones.
We do owe $20 trillion. Okay. So we're going to have the gulf states pay for those safe zones. They've got nothing, but money. We're going to do it that way instead of taking massive numbers. Tens the of thousands of people into our country and we don't know anything about those people. We want people to come into our country, but we want people that love us. We want people that can cherish us and the traditions of our country. We want people that are going to be great for our country. We don't want people with bad, bad ideas. We don't want that.
I've also directed the defense community headed by General, now  you know, he said it, he said it  and now Secretary Mad Dog' Mattis, to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. I have ordered the department of defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the united states military. We will pursue peace through strength. Our military is badly depleted. You have planes in the military. Where the father flew them and now the son is flying them. Their so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. We're going to start using our best and most modern equipment.
And we're going to make sure our veterans have the care they need when they come home. We love our veterans. We're going to do a great job for our veterans. Our veterans have been very, very sadly treated. These are our great great people. We owe them so much. Our veterans are going to be taken care of for once and for all. Our system and our country has led down our veterans. We are not going to let that go on any further. You wait and you see what we're going to be doing for our great veterans. Thank you veterans. Who is here? Who is a veteran? We're going to take care of our veterans.
We're going to downsize the bloated, bloated bureaucracy which make the government lien and accountable. We're going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. I've already imposed a five year lobbying ban on the executive branch officials and lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government.
And there's another major promise I have kept to the American people. I've nominated a fantastic justice to replace the late great Justice Scalia. His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch. He comes from my list of 20 very, very highly qualified judges. He's incredible and has an incredible resume. He's respected by all. His education is as good as it can get. His writings are truly amazing. He will be a true, true defender of our constitution. So let's tell the Senate Democrats to support his nomination for the good of the country because what's happening with the Democrats  no wonder they're doing so badly.
No wonder they're doing so badly. You take a look, race after race, I just want the tell you, in case you didn't read it, of course you're reading the fake news, but the Democrats were supposed to win the presidency. That didn't happen. They were supposed to take over the Senate. That didn't happen. And they were supposed to take over potentially even the House. It was going to be four weeks out the greatest defeat in the modern history of American politics. And it was, but it was for the Democrats, not for the Republicans. So we have to tell the Democrats, because they're doing the wrong thing for the American people, to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction. They got to get on with it.
My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates in the middle class to reduce tax rates big league on businesses and to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans so it's understandable by everyone. Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs, but the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. We're not going let that happen.
Also time for the Senate Democrats to take responsibility for Obamacare and to work with us to replace it with new reforms that reverse this nation-wide healthcare tragedy. It's a tragedy. You look at some states, Arizona, up 116%. Your deductibles have gone so high you can never use it. Obamacare doesn't work. It's become totally unaffordable. Remember they said the healthcare, it's unaffordable. It doesn't work. And I said to the Republicans, I said you want to do something great politically: don't do anything. Sit back for two years, let it explode. The Democrats will come and beg for us to do something, but we can't do that to the American people. We have to fix it. And we will.
We need members of both parties to join hands and work with us to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to build new roads and bridges and airports and tunnels and highways and railways all across our great nation.
You're all part of this incredible movement. This movement that we talk about so much. That's been written about on the cover of every magazine all over the world. It's a movement that is just sweeping. It's sweeping across our country. It's sweeping frankly across the globe. Look at Brexit. Look at Brexit. Much smaller example, but it's still something you can look at. People want to take back control of their countries and they want to take back control of their lives and the lives of their family.
The nation state remains the best model for human happiness and the American nation remains the greatest symbol of liberty, of freedom and justice on the face of god's earth. And now we have spirit like we've never had before. It's now that we have our sacred duty and we have no choice and we want this choice to defend our country, to protect its values and to serve its great, great citizens. Erasing national borders does not make people safer. It undermines democracy and trade prosperity. We're giving it away.
The so-called global elite have done well for themselves, but left working families with shrinking wages. Really they are shrinking. 18 years ago though many of you in this room made more money working one job than you're making right now working two and three jobs. Instead of peace, we've seen wars that never end and conflicts that never seem to go away. We don't fight to win. We fight politically correct wars. We don't win anymore. We don't win at trade. We don't win in any capacity. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again. Believe me.
And we have the chance now working together to deliver change for the ages. This will be change for the ages. Change like never before. To pursue real peace, real stability, and real prosperity. We want to secure our borders and protect our workers. To rebuild our military and our infrastructure. To fix our schools and restore safety to our neighborhoods. To bring hope and opportunity to our inner cities. To ensure a level playing field for all women in the workforce. To reform our tax code and remove the regulations that undermine growth and innovation. And to replace chaos and distrust with community and cooperation. The tired echoes of yesterday's fights. We're fighting battles that no longer help us. We're fighting battles that other people aren't treating us fairly in the fight.
I'm a NATO fan, but many of the countries in NATO, many of the countries that we protect, many of these countries are very rich countries. They're not paying their bills. They're not paying their bills. They have to help us. No longer are we chained down by the discredited approaches of the past. No longer must we listen to those who have nothing to brag about, but failure. New circumstances demand new solutions. Americans have fought and won wars together. Our heroes have shed their blood together and lost their lives. Our citizens have raised their children together, fought for justice together, and shared common hopes and dreams from one generation to the next. Stretching back to the first day of our American independence. This is our legacy. It belongs to all of you. And it belongs to every man, woman, and child in our nation.
Now is the time to call upon these deep ties in the name of bold acts. Let us move past the differences party and find a new loyalty rooted deeply in our country. We are all brothers and all sisters. We share one home. One destiny and one glorious American flag. We are united together by history and by providence. We will make America strong again. I promise. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Greater than ever before.
May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Please be seated.
Vice President Pence, Secretary of State Tillerson, members of the Cabinet, General Dunford, Deputy Secretary Shanahan, and Colonel Duggan. Most especially, thank you to the men and women of Fort Myer and every member of the United States military at home and abroad.
We send our thoughts and prayers to the families of our brave sailors who were injured and lost after a tragic collision at sea, as well as to those conducting the search and recovery efforts.
I am here tonight to lay out our path forward in Afghanistan and South Asia. But before I provide the details of our new strategy, I want to say a few words to the servicemembers here with us tonight, to those watching from their posts, and to all Americans listening at home.
Since the founding of our republic, our country has produced a special class of heroes whose selflessness, courage, and resolve is unmatched in human history
American patriots from every generation have given their last breath on the battlefield for our nation and for our freedom. Through their lives -- and though their lives were cut short, in their deeds they achieved total immortality.
By following the heroic example of those who fought to preserve our republic, we can find the inspiration our country needs to unify, to heal, and to remain one nation under God.
The men and women of our military operate as one team, with one shared mission, and one shared sense of purpose.
They transcend every line of race, ethnicity, creed, and color to serve together -- and sacrifice together -- in absolutely perfect cohesion. That is because all service members are brothers and sisters. They're all part of the same family; it's called the American family. They take the same oath, fight for the same flag, and live according to the same law. They are bound together by common purpose, mutual trust, and selfless devotion to our nation and to each other.
The soldier understands what we, as a nation, too often forget that a wound inflicted upon a single member of our community is a wound inflicted upon us all. When one part of America hurts, we all hurt. And when one citizen suffers an injustice, we all suffer together.
Loyalty to our nation demands loyalty to one another. Love for America requires love for all of its people. When we open our hearts to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice, no place for bigotry, and no tolerance for hate.
The young men and women we send to fight our wars abroad deserve to return to a country that is not at war with itself at home. We cannot remain a force for peace in the world if we are not at peace with each other.
As we send our bravest to defeat our enemies overseas -- and we will always win -- let us find the courage to heal our divisions within. Let us make a simple promise to the men and women we ask to fight in our name that, when they return home from battle, they will find a country that has renewed the sacred bonds of love and loyalty that unite us together as one.
Thanks to the vigilance and skill of the American military and of our many allies throughout the world, horrors on the scale of September 11th -- and nobody can ever forget that -- have not been repeated on our shores.
But we must also acknowledge the reality I am here to talk about tonight: that nearly 16 years after September 11th attacks, after the extraordinary sacrifice of blood and treasure, the American people are weary of war without victory. Nowhere is this more evident than with the war in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history -- 17 years.
I share the American people's frustration. I also share their frustration over a foreign policy that has spent too much time, energy, money, and most importantly lives, trying to rebuild countries in our own image, instead of pursuing our security interests above all other considerations.
That is why, shortly after my inauguration, I directed Secretary of Defense Mattis and my national security team to undertake a comprehensive review of all strategic options in Afghanistan and South Asia.
My original instinct was to pull out -- and, historically, I like following my instincts. But all my life I've heard that decisions are much different when you sit behind the desk in the Oval Office; in other words, when you're President of the United States. So I studied Afghanistan in great detail and from every conceivable angle. After many meetings, over many months, we held our final meeting last Friday at Camp David, with my Cabinet and generals, to complete our strategy. I arrived at three fundamental conclusions about America's core interests in Afghanistan.
First, our nation must seek an honorable and enduring outcome worthy of the tremendous sacrifices that have been made, especially the sacrifices of lives. The men and women who serve our nation in combat deserve a plan for victory. They deserve the tools they need, and the trust they have earned, to fight and to win.
Second, the consequences of a rapid exit are both predictable and unacceptable. 9/11, the worst terrorist attack in our history, was planned and directed from Afghanistan because that country was ruled by a government that gave comfort and shelter to terrorists. A hasty withdrawal would create a vacuum that terrorists, including ISIS and al Qaeda, would instantly fill, just as happened before September 11th.
And, as we know, in 2011, America hastily and mistakenly withdrew from Iraq. As a result, our hard-won gains slipped back into the hands of terrorist enemies. Our soldiers watched as cities they had fought for, and bled to liberate, and won, were occupied by a terrorist group called ISIS. The vacuum we created by leaving too soon gave safe haven for ISIS to spread, to grow, recruit, and launch attacks. We cannot repeat in Afghanistan the mistake our leaders made in Iraq.
Third and finally, I concluded that the security threats we face in Afghanistan and the broader region are immense. Today, 20 U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organizations are active in Afghanistan and Pakistan -- the highest concentration in any region anywhere in the world.
For its part, Pakistan often gives safe haven to agents of chaos, violence, and terror. The threat is worse because Pakistan and India are two nuclear-armed states whose tense relations threaten to spiral into conflict. And that could happen.
No one denies that we have inherited a challenging and troubling situation in Afghanistan and South Asia, but we do not have the luxury of going back in time and making different or better decisions. When I became President, I was given a bad and very complex hand, but I fully knew what I was getting into: big and intricate problems. But, one way or another, these problems will be solved -- I'm a problem solver -- and, in the end, we will win.
We must address the reality of the world as it exists right now -- the threats we face, and the confronting of all of the problems of today, and extremely predictable consequences of a hasty withdrawal.
We need look no further than last week's vile, vicious attack in Barcelona to understand that terror groups will stop at nothing to commit the mass murder of innocent men, women and children. You saw it for yourself. Horrible.
As I outlined in my speech in Saudi Arabia three months ago, America and our partners are committed to stripping terrorists of their territory, cutting off their funding, and exposing the false allure of their evil ideology.
Terrorists who slaughter innocent people will find no glory in this life or the next. They are nothing but thugs, and criminals, and predators, and -- that's right -- losers. Working alongside our allies, we will break their will, dry up their recruitment, keep them from crossing our borders, and yes, we will defeat them, and we will defeat them handily.
In Afghanistan and Pakistan, America's interests are clear: We must stop the resurgence of safe havens that enable terrorists to threaten America, and we must prevent nuclear weapons and materials from coming into the hands of terrorists and being used against us, or anywhere in the world for that matter
But to prosecute this war, we will learn from history. As a result of our comprehensive review, American strategy in Afghanistan and South Asia will change dramatically in the following ways:
A core pillar of our new strategy is a shift from a time-based approach to one based on conditions. I've said it many times how counterproductive it is for the United States to announce in advance the dates we intend to begin, or end, military options. We will not talk about numbers of troops or our plans for further military activities.
Conditions on the ground -- not arbitrary timetables -- will guide our strategy from now on. America's enemies must never know our plans or believe they can wait us out. I will not say when we are going to attack, but attack we will.
Another fundamental pillar of our new strategy is the integration of all instruments of American power -- diplomatic, economic, and military -- toward a successful outcome.
Someday, after an effective military effort, perhaps it will be possible to have a political settlement that includes elements of the Taliban in Afghanistan, but nobody knows if or when that will ever happen. America will continue its support for the Afghan government and the Afghan military as they confront the Taliban in the field.
Ultimately, it is up to the people of Afghanistan to take ownership of their future, to govern their society, and to achieve an everlasting peace. We are a partner and a friend, but we will not dictate to the Afghan people how to live, or how to govern their own complex society. We are not nation-building again. We are killing terrorists.
The next pillar of our new strategy is to change the approach and how to deal with Pakistan. We can no longer be silent about Pakistan's safe havens for terrorist organizations, the Taliban, and other groups that pose a threat to the region and beyond. Pakistan has much to gain from partnering with our effort in Afghanistan. It has much to lose by continuing to harbor criminals and terrorists.
In the past, Pakistan has been a valued partner. Our militaries have worked together against common enemies. The Pakistani people have suffered greatly from terrorism and extremism. We recognize those contributions and those sacrifices.
But Pakistan has also sheltered the same organizations that try every single day to kill our people. We have been paying Pakistan billions and billions of dollars at the same time they are housing the very terrorists that we are fighting. But that will have to change, and that will change immediately. No partnership can survive a country's harboring of militants and terrorists who target U.S. service members and officials. It is time for Pakistan to demonstrate its commitment to civilization, order, and to peace.
Another critical part of the South Asia strategy for America is to further develop its strategic partnership with India -- the world's largest democracy and a key security and economic partner of the United States. We appreciate India's important contributions to stability in Afghanistan, but India makes billions of dollars in trade with the United States, and we want them to help us more with Afghanistan, especially in the area of economic assistance and development. We are committed to pursuing our shared objectives for peace and security in South Asia and the broader Indo-Pacific region.
Finally, my administration will ensure that you, the brave defenders of the American people, will have the necessary tools and rules of engagement to make this strategy work, and work effectively and work quickly.
I have already lifted restrictions the previous administration placed on our warfighters that prevented the Secretary of Defense and our commanders in the field from fully and swiftly waging battle against the enemy. Micromanagement from Washington, D.C. does not win battles. They are won in the field drawing upon the judgment and expertise of wartime commanders and frontline soldiers acting in real time, with real authority, and with a clear mission to defeat the enemy.
That's why we will also expand authority for American armed forces to target the terrorist and criminal networks that sow violence and chaos throughout Afghanistan. These killers need to know they have nowhere to hide; that no place is beyond the reach of American might and Americans arms. Retribution will be fast and powerful.
As we lift restrictions and expand authorities in the field, we are already seeing dramatic results in the campaign to defeat ISIS, including the liberation of Mosul in Iraq.
Since my inauguration, we have achieved record-breaking success in that regard. We will also maximize sanctions and other financial and law enforcement actions against these networks to eliminate their ability to export terror. When America commits its warriors to battle, we must ensure they have every weapon to apply swift, decisive, and overwhelming force.
Our troops will fight to win. We will fight to win. From now on, victory will have a clear definition: attacking our enemies, obliterating ISIS, crushing al-Qaeda, preventing the Taliban from taking over Afghanistan, and stopping mass terror attacks against America before they emerge.
We will ask our NATO allies and global partners to support our new strategy with additional troop and funding increases in line with our own. We are confident they will. Since taking office, I have made clear that our allies and partners must contribute much more money to our collective defense, and they have done so.
In this struggle, the heaviest burden will continue to be borne by the good people of Afghanistan and their courageous armed forces. As the prime minister of Afghanistan has promised, we are going to participate in economic development to help defray the cost of this war to us.
Afghanistan is fighting to defend and secure their country against the same enemies who threaten us. The stronger the Afghan security forces become, the less we will have to do. Afghans will secure and build their own nation and define their own future. We want them to succeed.
But we will no longer use American military might to construct democracies in faraway lands, or try to rebuild other countries in our own image. Those days are now over. Instead, we will work with allies and partners to protect our shared interests. We are not asking others to change their way of life, but to pursue common goals that allow our children to live better and safer lives. This principled realism will guide our decisions moving forward.
Military power alone will not bring peace to Afghanistan or stop the terrorist threat arising in that country. But strategically applied force aims to create the conditions for a political process to achieve a lasting peace
America will work with the Afghan government as long as we see determination and progress. However, our commitment is not unlimited, and our support is not a blank check. The government of Afghanistan must carry their share of the military, political, and economic burden. The American people expect to see real reforms, real progress, and real results. Our patience is not unlimited. We will keep our eyes wide open.
In abiding by the oath I took on January 20th, I will remain steadfast in protecting American lives and American interests. In this effort, we will make common cause with any nation that chooses to stand and fight alongside us against this global threat. Terrorists take heed: America will never let up until you are dealt a lasting defeat.
Under my administration, many billions of dollars more is being spent on our military. And this includes vast amounts being spent on our nuclear arsenal and missile defense.
In every generation, we have faced down evil, and we have always prevailed. We prevailed because we know who we are and what we are fighting for.
Not far from where we are gathered tonight, hundreds of thousands of America's greatest patriots lay in eternal rest at Arlington National Cemetery. There is more courage, sacrifice, and love in those hallowed grounds than in any other spot on the face of the Earth.
Many of those who have fought and died in Afghanistan enlisted in the months after September 11th, 2001. They volunteered for a simple reason: They loved America, and they were determined to protect her.
Now we must secure the cause for which they gave their lives. We must unite to defend America from its enemies abroad. We must restore the bonds of loyalty among our citizens at home, and we must achieve an honorable and enduring outcome worthy of the enormous price that so many have paid.
Our actions, and in the months to come, all of them will honor the sacrifice of every fallen hero, every family who lost a loved one, and every wounded warrior who shed their blood in defense of our great nation. With our resolve, we will ensure that your service and that your families will bring about the defeat of our enemies and the arrival of peace.
We will push onward to victory with power in our hearts, courage in our souls, and everlasting pride in each and every one of you.
Thank you. May God bless our military. And may God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you very much. That's so nice. The United States has many great diplomats, but there is truly no better ambassador for our country than our beautiful First Lady, Melania. Thank you, Melania. That was very nice.
We've come to your nation to deliver a very important message: America loves Poland, and America loves the Polish people.
The Poles have not only greatly enriched this region, but Polish-Americans have also greatly enriched the United States, and I was truly proud to have their support in the 2016 election.
It is a profound honor to stand in this city, by this monument to the Warsaw Uprising, and to address the Polish nation that so many generations have dreamed of: a Poland that is safe, strong, and free.
President Duda and your wonderful First Lady, Agata, have welcomed us with the tremendous warmth and kindness for which Poland is known around the world. Thank you. My sincere -- and I mean sincerely thank both of them. And to Prime Minister Szydlo a very special thanks also.
We are also pleased that former President Lech Walesa, so famous for leading the Solidarity Movement, has joined us today, also. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
On behalf of all Americans, let me also thank the entire Polish people for the generosity you have shown in welcoming our soldiers to your country. These soldiers are not only brave defenders of freedom, but also symbols of America's commitment to your security and your place in a strong and democratic Europe.
We are proudly joined on stage by American, Polish, British, and Romanian soldiers. Thank you. Thank you. Great job.
President Duda and I have just come from an incredibly successful meeting with the leaders participating in the Three Seas Initiative. To the citizens of this great region, America is eager to expand our partnership with you. We welcome stronger ties of trade and commerce as you grow your economies. And we are committed to securing your access to alternate sources of energy, so Poland and its neighbors are never again held hostage to a single supplier of energy.
Mr. President, I congratulate you, along with the President of Croatia, on your leadership of this historic Three Seas Initiative. Thank you.
This is my first visit to Central Europe as President, and I am thrilled that it could be right here at this magnificent, beautiful piece of land. It is beautiful. Poland is the geographic heart of Europe, but more importantly, in the Polish people, we see the soul of Europe. Your nation is great because your spirit is great and your spirit is strong.
For two centuries, Poland suffered constant and brutal attacks. But while Poland could be invaded and occupied, and its borders even erased from the map, it could never be erased from history or from your hearts. In those dark days, you have lost your land but you never lost your pride.
So it is with true admiration that I can say today, that from the farms and villages of your countryside to the cathedrals and squares of your great cities, Poland lives, Poland prospers, and Poland prevails.
Despite every effort to transform you, oppress you, or destroy you, you endured and overcame. You are the proud nation of Copernicus  think of that  Chopin, Saint John Paul II. Poland is a land of great heroes. And you are a people who know the true value of what you defend.
The triumph of the Polish spirit over centuries of hardship gives us all hope for a future in which good conquers evil, and peace achieves victory over war.
For Americans, Poland has been a symbol of hope since the beginning of our nation. Polish heroes and American patriots fought side by side in our War of Independence and in many wars that followed. Our soldiers still serve together today in Afghanistan and Iraq, combating the enemies of all civilization.
For America's part, we have never given up on freedom and independence as the right and destiny of the Polish people, and we never, ever will.
Our two countries share a special bond forged by unique histories and national characters. It's a fellowship that exists only among people who have fought and bled and died for freedom.
The signs of this friendship stand in our nation's capital. Just steps from the White House, we've raised statues of men with names like Puaski and Kociuszko. The same is true in Warsaw, where street signs carry the name of George Washington, and a monument stands to one of the world's greatest heroes, Ronald Reagan.
And so I am here today not just to visit an old ally, but to hold it up as an example for others who seek freedom and who wish to summon the courage and the will to defend our civilization. The story of Poland is the story of a people who have never lost hope, who have never been broken, and who have never, ever forgotten who they are.
This is a nation more than one thousand years old. Your borders were erased for more than a century and only restored just one century ago.
In 1920, in the Miracle of Vistula, Poland stopped the Soviet army bent on European conquest. Then, 19 years later in 1939, you were invaded yet again, this time by Nazi Germany from the west and the Soviet Union from the east. That's trouble. That's tough.
Under a double occupation the Polish people endured evils beyond description: the Katyn forest massacre, the occupations, the Holocaust, the Warsaw Ghetto and the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, the destruction of this beautiful capital city, and the deaths of nearly one in five Polish people. A vibrant Jewish population  the largest in Europe  was reduced to almost nothing after the Nazis systematically murdered millions of Poland's Jewish citizens, along with countless others, during that brutal occupation.
In the summer of 1944, the Nazi and Soviet armies were preparing for a terrible and bloody battle right here in Warsaw. Amid that hell on earth, the citizens of Poland rose up to defend their homeland. I am deeply honored to be joined on stage today by veterans and heroes of the Warsaw Uprising.
What great spirit. We salute your noble sacrifice and we pledge to always remember your fight for Poland and for freedom. Thank you. Thank you.
This monument reminds us that more than 150,000 Poles died during that desperate struggle to overthrow oppression.
From the other side of the river, the Soviet armed forces stopped and waited. They watched as the Nazis ruthlessly destroyed the city, viciously murdering men, women, and children. They tried to destroy this nation forever by shattering its will to survive.
But there is a courage and a strength deep in the Polish character that no one could destroy. The Polish martyr, Bishop Michael Kozal, said it well: More horrifying than a defeat of arms is a collapse of the human spirit.
Through four decades of communist rule, Poland and the other captive nations of Europe endured a brutal campaign to demolish freedom, your faith, your laws, your history, your identity  indeed the very essence of your culture and your humanity. Yet, through it all, you never lost that spirit. Your oppressors tried to break you, but Poland could not be broken.
And when the day came on June 2nd, 1979, and one million Poles gathered around Victory Square for their very first mass with their Polish Pope, that day, every communist in Warsaw must have known that their oppressive system would soon come crashing down. They must have known it at the exact moment during Pope John Paul II's sermon when a million Polish men, women, and children suddenly raised their voices in a single prayer. A million Polish people did not ask for wealth. They did not ask for privilege. Instead, one million Poles sang three simple words: We Want God.
In those words, the Polish people recalled the promise of a better future. They found new courage to face down their oppressors, and they found the words to declare that Poland would be Poland once again.
As I stand here today before this incredible crowd, this faithful nation, we can still hear those voices that echo through history. Their message is as true today as ever. The people of Poland, the people of America, and the people of Europe still cry out We want God.
Together, with Pope John Paul II, the Poles reasserted their identity as a nation devoted to God. And with that powerful declaration of who you are, you came to understand what to do and how to live. You stood in solidarity against oppression, against a lawless secret police, against a cruel and wicked system that impoverished your cities and your souls. And you won. Poland prevailed. Poland will always prevail.
You were supported in that victory over communism by a strong alliance of free nations in the West that defied tyranny. Now, among the most committed members of the NATO Alliance, Poland has resumed its place as a leading nation of a Europe that is strong, whole, and free.
A strong Poland is a blessing to the nations of Europe, and they know that. A strong Europe is a blessing to the West and to the world. One hundred years after the entry of American forces into World War I, the transatlantic bond between the United States and Europe is as strong as ever and maybe, in many ways, even stronger.
This continent no longer confronts the specter of communism. But today we're in the West, and we have to say there are dire threats to our security and to our way of life. You see what's happening out there. They are threats. We will confront them. We will win. But they are threats.
We are confronted by another oppressive ideology  one that seeks to export terrorism and extremism all around the globe. America and Europe have suffered one terror attack after another. We're going to get it to stop.
During a historic gathering in Saudi Arabia, I called on the leaders of more than 50 Muslim nations to join together to drive out this menace which threatens all of humanity. We must stand united against these shared enemies to strip them of their territory and their funding, and their networks, and any form of ideological support that they may have. While we will always welcome new citizens who share our values and love our people, our borders will always be closed to terrorism and extremism of any kind.
We are fighting hard against radical Islamic terrorism, and we will prevail. We cannot accept those who reject our values and who use hatred to justify violence against the innocent.
Today, the West is also confronted by the powers that seek to test our will, undermine our confidence, and challenge our interests. To meet new forms of aggression, including propaganda, financial crimes, and cyberwarfare, we must adapt our alliance to compete effectively in new ways and on all new battlefields.
We urge Russia to cease its destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere, and its support for hostile regimes  including Syria and Iran  and to instead join the community of responsible nations in our fight against common enemies and in defense of civilization itself.
Finally, on both sides of the Atlantic, our citizens are confronted by yet another danger  one firmly within our control. This danger is invisible to some but familiar to the Poles: the steady creep of government bureaucracy that drains the vitality and wealth of the people. The West became great not because of paperwork and regulations but because people were allowed to chase their dreams and pursue their destinies.
Americans, Poles, and the nations of Europe value individual freedom and sovereignty. We must work together to confront forces, whether they come from inside or out, from the South or the East, that threaten over time to undermine these values and to erase the bonds of culture, faith and tradition that make us who we are. If left unchecked, these forces will undermine our courage, sap our spirit, and weaken our will to defend ourselves and our societies.
But just as our adversaries and enemies of the past learned here in Poland, we know that these forces, too, are doomed to fail if we want them to fail. And we do, indeed, want them to fail. They are doomed not only because our alliance is strong, our countries are resilient, and our power is unmatched. Through all of that, you have to say everything is true. Our adversaries, however, are doomed because we will never forget who we are. And if we don't forget who are, we just can't be beaten. Americans will never forget. The nations of Europe will never forget. We are the fastest and the greatest community. There is nothing like our community of nations. The world has never known anything like our community of nations.
We write symphonies. We pursue innovation. We celebrate our ancient heroes, embrace our timeless traditions and customs, and always seek to explore and discover brand-new frontiers.
We reward brilliance. We strive for excellence, and cherish inspiring works of art that honor God. We treasure the rule of law and protect the right to free speech and free expression.
We empower women as pillars of our society and of our success. We put faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, at the center of our lives. And we debate everything. We challenge everything. We seek to know everything so that we can better know ourselves.
And above all, we value the dignity of every human life, protect the rights of every person, and share the hope of every soul to live in freedom. That is who we are. Those are the priceless ties that bind us together as nations, as allies, and as a civilization.
What we have, what we inherited from our  and you know this better than anybody, and you see it today with this incredible group of people  what we've inherited from our ancestors has never existed to this extent before. And if we fail to preserve it, it will never, ever exist again. So we cannot fail.
This great community of nations has something else in common: In every one of them, it is the people, not the powerful, who have always formed the foundation of freedom and the cornerstone of our defense. The people have been that foundation here in Poland  as they were right here in Warsaw  and they were the foundation from the very, very beginning in America.
Our citizens did not win freedom together, did not survive horrors together, did not face down evil together, only to lose our freedom to a lack of pride and confidence in our values. We did not and we will not. We will never back down.
As long as we know our history, we will know how to build our future. Americans know that a strong alliance of free, sovereign and independent nations is the best defense for our freedoms and for our interests. That is why my administration has demanded that all members of NATO finally meet their full and fair financial obligation.
As a result of this insistence, billions of dollars more have begun to pour into NATO. In fact, people are shocked. But billions and billions of dollars more are coming in from countries that, in my opinion, would not have been paying so quickly.
To those who would criticize our tough stance, I would point out that the United States has demonstrated not merely with words but with its actions that we stand firmly behind Article 5, the mutual defense commitment.
Words are easy, but actions are what matters. And for its own protection  and you know this, everybody knows this, everybody has to know this  Europe must do more. Europe must demonstrate that it believes in its future by investing its money to secure that future.
That is why we applaud Poland for its decision to move forward this week on acquiring from the United States the battle-tested Patriot air and missile defense system -- the best anywhere in the world. That is also why we salute the Polish people for being one of the NATO countries that has actually achieved the benchmark for investment in our common defense. Thank you. Thank you, Poland. I must tell you, the example you set is truly magnificent, and we applaud Poland. Thank you.
We have to remember that our defense is not just a commitment of money, it is a commitment of will. Because as the Polish experience reminds us, the defense of the West ultimately rests not only on means but also on the will of its people to prevail and be successful and get what you have to have. The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive. Do we have the confidence in our values to defend them at any cost? Do we have enough respect for our citizens to protect our borders? Do we have the desire and the courage to preserve our civilization in the face of those who would subvert and destroy it?
We can have the largest economies and the most lethal weapons anywhere on Earth, but if we do not have strong families and strong values, then we will be weak and we will not survive. If anyone forgets the critical importance of these things, let them come to one country that never has. Let them come to Poland. And let them come here, to Warsaw, and learn the story of the Warsaw Uprising.
When they do, they should learn about Jerusalem Avenue. In August of 1944, Jerusalem Avenue was one of the main roads running east and west through this city, just as it is today.
Control of that road was crucially important to both sides in the battle for Warsaw. The German military wanted it as their most direct route to move troops and to form a very strong front. And for the Polish Home Army, the ability to pass north and south across that street was critical to keep the center of the city, and the Uprising itself, from being split apart and destroyed.
Every night, the Poles put up sandbags amid machine gun fire -- and it was horrendous fire -- to protect a narrow passage across Jerusalem Avenue. Every day, the enemy forces knocked them down again and again and again. Then the Poles dug a trench. Finally, they built a barricade. And the brave Polish fighters began to flow across Jerusalem Avenue. That narrow passageway, just a few feet wide, was the fragile link that kept the Uprising alive.
Between its walls, a constant stream of citizens and freedom fighters made their perilous, just perilous, sprints. They ran across that street, they ran through that street, they ran under that street -- all to defend this city. The far side was several yards away, recalled one young Polish woman named Greta. That mortality and that life was so important to her. In fact, she said, The mortally dangerous sector of the street was soaked in the blood. It was the blood of messengers, liaison girls, and couriers.
Nazi snipers shot at anybody who crossed. Anybody who crossed, they were being shot at. Their soldiers burned every building on the street, and they used the Poles as human shields for their tanks in their effort to capture Jerusalem Avenue. The enemy never ceased its relentless assault on that small outpost of civilization. And the Poles never ceased its defense.
The Jerusalem Avenue passage required constant protection, repair, and reinforcement, but the will of its defenders did not waver, even in the face of death. And to the last days of the Uprising, the fragile crossing never, ever failed. It was never, ever forgotten. It was kept open by the Polish people.
The memories of those who perished in the Warsaw Uprising cry out across the decades, and few are clearer than the memories of those who died to build and defend the Jerusalem Avenue crossing. Those heroes remind us that the West was saved with the blood of patriots; that each generation must rise up and play their part in its defense and that every foot of ground, and every last inch of civilization, is worth defending with your life.
Our own fight for the West does not begin on the battlefield -- it begins with our minds, our wills, and our souls. Today, the ties that unite our civilization are no less vital, and demand no less defense, than that bare shred of land on which the hope of Poland once totally rested. Our freedom, our civilization, and our survival depend on these bonds of history, culture, and memory.
And today as ever, Poland is in our heart, and its people are in that fight. Just as Poland could not be broken, I declare today for the world to hear that the West will never, ever be broken. Our values will prevail. Our people will thrive. And our civilization will triumph.
So, together, let us all fight like the Poles  for family, for freedom, for country, and for God.
Thank you. God Bless You. God bless the Polish people. God bless our allies. And God bless the United States of America.
Thank you. God bless you. Thank you very much.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. I am thrilled to be here. Thrilled.
And if you think that was an easy trip, you're wrong. But I am thrilled.
19th Boy Scout Jamboree, wow, and to address such a tremendous group. Boy, you have a lot of people here. The press will say it's about 200 people.
It looks like about 45,000 people. You set a record today.
You set a record. That's a great honor, believe me.
Tonight we put aside all of the policy fights in Washington, D.C. you've been hearing about with the fake news and all of that. We're going to put that...
We're going to put that aside. And instead we're going to talk about success, about how all of you amazing young Scouts can achieve your dreams, what to think of, what I've been thinking about. You want to achieve your dreams, I said, who the hell wants to speak about politics when I'm in front of the Boy Scouts? Right?
There are many great honors that come with the job of being president of the United States. But looking out at this incredible gathering of mostly young patriots. Mostly young. I'm especially proud to speak to you as the honorary president of the Boy Scouts of America.
You are the young people of character, integrity who will serve as leaders of our communities and uphold the sacred values of our nation.
I want to thank Boy Scouts President Randall Stephenson, chief Scout executive Michael Surbaugh, Jamboree Chairman Ralph de la Vega and the thousands of volunteers who made this a life-changing experience for all of you. And when they asked me to be here, I said absolutely yes.
Finally -- and we can't forgot these people -- I especially want to salute the moms and the dads and troop leaders who are here tonight.
Thank you for making scouting possible. Thank you, mom and dad, troop leaders.
When you volunteer for the Boy Scouts you are not only shaping young lives, you are shaping the future of America.
The United States has no better citizens than its Boy Scouts.
No better.
The values, traditions and skills you learn here will serve you throughout your lives. And just as importantly, they will serve your families, your cities, and in the future and in the present will serve your country.
The Scouts believe in putting America first.
You know, I go to Washington and I see all these politicians, and I see the swamp, and it's not a good place. In fact, today, I said we ought to change it from the word "swamp" to the word "cesspool" or perhaps to the word "sewer."
But it's not good. Not good. And I see what's going on. And believe me, I'd much rather be with you, that I can tell you.
I'll tell you the reason that I love this, and the reason that I really wanted to be here, is because as president, I rely on former Boy Scouts every single day. And so do the American people.
It's amazing how many Boy Scouts we have at the highest level of our great government. Many of my top advisers in the White House were Scouts. Ten members of my cabinet were Scouts. Can you believe that? Ten.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is not only a Boy Scout, he is your former national president.
The vice president of the United States, Mike Pence -- a good guy -- was a Scout, and it meant so much to him.
Some of you here tonight might even have camped out in this yard when Mike was the governor of Indiana, but the scouting was very, very important.
And by the way, where are our Indiana scouts tonight?
I wonder if the television cameras will follow you? They don't doing that when they see these massive crowds. They don't like doing that.
Hi, folks.
There's a lot of love in this big, beautiful place. A lot of love. And a lot of love for our country. And a lot of love for our country.
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke is here tonight.
Come here, Ryan.
Ryan is an Eagle Scout from Big Sky Country in Montana.
Pretty good.
And by the way, he is doing a fantastic job. He makes sure that we leave our national parks and federal lands better than we found them in the best scouting tradition.
So thank you very much, Ryan.
Secretary of Energy Rick Perry of Texas, an Eagle Scout from the great state.
The first time he came to the National Jamboree was in 1964. He was very young then. And Rick told me just a little while ago, it totally changed his life.
So, Rick, thank you very much for being here. And we're doing -- we're doing a lot with energy.
And very soon, Rick, we will be an energy exporter. Isn't that nice? An energy exporter.
In other words, we'll be selling our energy instead of buying it from everybody all over the globe. So that's good.
We will be energy dominant.
And I'll tell you what, the folks in West Virginia who were so nice to me, boy, have we kept our promise. We are going on and on. So we love West Virginia. We want to thank you.
Where's West Virginia by the way?
Thank you.
Secretary Tom Price is also here today. Dr. Price still lives the Scout oath, helping to keep millions of Americans strong and healthy as our secretary of Health and Human Services. And he's doing a great job. And hopefully he's going to gets the votes tomorrow to start our path toward killing this horrible thing known as Obamacare that's really hurting us.
By the way, are you going to get the votes? He better get them. He better get them. Oh, he better. Otherwise I'll say, "Tom, you're fired." I'll get somebody.
He better get Senator Capito to vote for it. He better get the other senators to vote for it. It's time.
You know, after seven years of saying repeal and replace Obamacare we have a chance to now do it. They better do it. Hopefully they'll do it.
As we can see just by looking at our government, in America, Scouts lead the way. And another thing I've noticed -- and I've noticed it all my life -- there is a tremendous spirit with being a Scout, more so than almost anything I can think of. So whatever is going on, keep doing it. It's incredible to watch, believe me.
Each of these leaders will tell that you their road to American success -- and you have to understand -- their American success, and they are a great, great story, was paved with the patriotic American values and traditions they learned in the Boy Scouts. And some day, many years from now, when you look back on all of the adventures in your lives you will be able to say the same, I got my start as a Scout, just like these incredibly great people that are doing such a good job for our country. So that's going to happen.
Boy Scout values are American values. And great Boy Scouts become great, great Americans.
As the Scout law says, a scout is trustworthy, loyal -- we could use some more loyalty I will tell that you that.
That was very impressive. You've heard that before. But here you learn the rewards of hard work and perseverance, never, ever give up. Never quit. Persevere. Never, ever quit. You learn the satisfaction of building a roaring campfire, reaching a mountain summit or earning a merit badge after mastering a certain skill. There's no better feeling than an achievement that you've earned with your own sweat, tears, resolve, hard work. There's nothing like it. Do you agree with that?
I'm waving to people back there so small I can't even see them. Man, this is a lot of people. Turn those cameras back there, please. That is so incredible.
By the way, what do you think the chances are that this incredible massive crowd, record setting, is going to be shown on television tonight? One percent or zero?
The fake media will say, "President Trump spoke" -- you know what is -- "President Trump spoke before a small crowd of Boy Scouts today." That's some -- that is some crowd. Fake media. Fake news.
Thank you. And I'm honored by that. By the way, all of you people that can't even see you, so thank you. I hope you can hear.
Through scouting you also learned to believe in yourself -- so important -- to have confidence in your ability and to take responsibility for your own life. When you face down new challenges -- and you will have plenty of them -- develop talents you never thought possible, and lead your teammates through daring trials, you discover that you can handle anything. And you learn it by being a Scout. It's great.
You can do anything. You can be anything you want to be. But in order to succeed, you must find out what you love to do. You have to find your passion, no matter what they tell you. If you don't -- I love you too. I don't know. Nice guy.
Hey, what am I going to do? He sounds like a nice person. He -- he, he, he. I do. I do love you.
By the way, just a question, did President Obama ever come to a Jamboree?
And we'll be back. We'll be back. The answer is no. But we'll be back.
In life, in order to be successful -- and you people are well on the road to success -- you have to find out what makes you excited, what makes you want to get up each morning and go to work? You have to find it. If you love what you do and dedicate yourself to your work, then you will gain momentum? And look, you have to. You need the word "momentum." You will gain that momentum. And each success will create another success. The word "momentum."
I'll tell you a story that's very interesting for me. When I was young there was a man named William Levitt. You have some here. You have some in different states. Anybody ever hear of Levittown?
And he was a very successful man, became unbelievable -- he was a home builder, became an unbelievable success, and got more and more successful. And he'd build homes, and at night he'd go to these major sites with teams of people, and he'd scour the sites for nails, and sawdust and small pieces of wood, and they cleaned the site, so when the workers came in the next morning, the sites would be spotless and clean, and he did it properly. And he did this for 20 years, and then he was offered a lot of money for his company, and he sold his company, for a tremendous amount of money, at the time especially. This is a long time ago. Sold his company for a tremendous amount of money.
And he went out and bought a big yacht, and he had a very interesting life. I won't go any more than that, because you're Boy Scouts so I'm not going to tell you what he did.
Should I tell you? Should I tell you?
You're Boy Scouts, but you know life. You know life.
So look at you. Who would think this is the Boy Scouts, right? So he had a very, very interesting life, and the company that bought his company was a big conglomerate, and they didn't know anything about building homes, and they didn't know anything about picking up the nails and the sawdust and selling it, and the scraps of wood. This was a big conglomerate based in New York City.
And after about a 10-year period, there were losing a lot with it. It didn't mean anything to them. And they couldn't sell it. So they called William Levitt up, and they said, would you like to buy back your company, and he said, yes, I would. He so badly wanted it. He got bored with this life of yachts, and sailing, and all of the things he did in the south of France and other places. You won't get bored, right? You know, truthfully, you're workers. You'll get bored too, believe me. Of course having a few good years like that isn't so bad.
But what happened is he bought back his company, and he bought back a lot of empty land, and he worked hard at getting zoning, and he worked hard on starting to develop, and in the end he failed, and he failed badly, lost all of his money. He went personally bankrupt, and he was now much older. And I saw him at a cocktail party. And it was very sad because the hottest people in New York were at this party. It was the party of Steve Ross -- Steve Ross, who was one of the great people. He came up and discovered, really founded Time Warner, and he was a great guy. He had a lot of successful people at the party.
And I was doing well, so I got invited to the party. I was very young. And I go in, but I'm in the real estate business, and I see a hundred people, some of whom I recognize, and they're big in the entertainment business.
And I see sitting in the corner was a little old man who was all by himself. Nobody was talking to him. I immediately recognized that that man was the once great William Levitt, of Levittown, and I immediately went over. I wanted to talk to him more than the Hollywood, show business, communications people.
So I went over and talked to him, and I said, "Mr. Levitt, I'm Donald Trump." He said, "I know." I said, "Mr. Levitt, how are you doing?" He goes, "Not well, not well at all." And I knew that. But he said, "Not well at all." And he explained what was happening and how bad it's been and how hard it's been. And I said, "What exactly happened? Why did this happen to you? You're one of the greats ever in our industry. Why did this happen to you?"
And he said, "Donald, I lost my momentum. I lost my momentum." A word you never hear when you're talking about success when some of these guys that never made 10 cents, they're on television giving you things about how you're going to be successful, and the only thing they ever did was a book and a tape. But I tell you -- I'll tell you, it was very sad, and I never forgot that moment.
And I thought about it, and it's exactly true. He lost his momentum, meaning he took this period of time off, long, years, and then when he got back, he didn't have that same momentum.
In life, I always tell this to people, you have to know whether or not you continue to have the momentum. And if you don't have it, that's OK. Because you're going to go on, and you're going to learn and you're going to do things that are great. But you have to know about the word "momentum."
But the big thing, never quit, never give up; do something you love. When you do something you love as a Scout, I see that you love it. But when you do something that you love, you'll never fail. What you're going to do is give it a shot again and again and again. You're ultimately going to be successful.
And remember this, you're not working. Because when you're doing something that you love, like I do -- of course I love my business, but this is a little bit different. Who thought this was going to happen. We're, you know, having a good time. We're doing a good job.
Doing a good job. But when you do something that you love, remember this, it's not work. So you'll work 24/7. You're going to work all the time. And at the end of the year you're not really working. You don't think of it as work. When you're not doing something that you like or when you're forced into do something that you really don't like, that's called work, and it's hard work, and tedious work.
So as much as you can do something that you love, work hard and never ever give up, and you're going to be tremendously successful, tremendously successful.
Now, with that, I have to tell you our economy is doing great. Our stock market has picked up since the election, November 8th -- do we remember that day? Was that a beautiful day?
What a day.
Do you remember that famous night on television, November 8th where they said, these dishonest people, where they said, there is no path to victory for Donald Trump. They forgot about the forgotten people.
By the way, they're not forgetting about the forgotten people anymore. They're going crazy trying to figure it out, but I told them, far too late; it's far too late.
But you remember that incredible night with the maps, and the Republicans are red and the Democrats are blue, and that map was so red it was unbelievable. And they didn't know what to say.
And you know, we have a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College. Popular vote is much easier. We have -- because New York, California, Illinois, you have to practically run the East Coast. And we did. We won Florida. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won Pennsylvania.
We won and won. So when they said, there is no way to victory; there is no way to 270. You know I went to Maine four times because it's one vote, and we won. We won. One vote. I went there because I kept hearing we're at 269. But then Wisconsin came in. Many, many years. Michigan came in.
So -- and we worked hard there. You know, my opponent didn't work hard there, because she was told...
She was told she was going to win Michigan, and I said, well, wait a minute. The car industry is moving to Mexico. Why is she going to move -- she's there. Why are they allowing it to move? And by the way, do you see those car industry -- do you see what's happening? They're coming back to Michigan. They're coming back to Ohio. They're starting to peel back in.
And we go to Wisconsin, now, Wisconsin hadn't been won in many, many years by a Republican. But we go to Wisconsin, and we had tremendous crowds. And I'd leave these massive crowds, I'd say, why are we going to lose this state?
The polls, that's also fake news. They're fake polls. But the polls are saying -- but we won Wisconsin.
So I have to tell you, what we did, in all fairness, is an unbelievable tribute to you and all of the other millions and millions of people that came out and voted for make America great again.
And I'll tell you what, we are indeed making America great again.
And I'll tell you what, we are indeed making America great again. What's going on is incredible.
We had the best jobs report in 16 years. The stock market on a daily basis is hitting an all-time high.
We're going to be bringing back very soon trillions of dollars from companies that can't get their money back into this country, and that money is going to be used to help rebuild America. We're doing things that nobody ever thought was possible, and we've just started. It's just the beginning, believe me.
You know, in the Boy Scouts you learn right from wrong, correct? You learn to contribute to your communities, to take pride in your nation, and to seek out opportunities to serve. You pledge to help other people at all times.
In the Scout oath, you pledge on your honor to do your best and to do your duty to God and your country.
And by the way, under the Trump administration you'll be saying "Merry Christmas" again when you go shopping, believe me.
Merry Christmas.
They've been downplaying that little beautiful phrase. You're going to be saying "Merry Christmas" again, folks.
But the words "duty," "country" and "God" are beautiful words. In other words, basically what you're doing is you're pledging to be a great American patriot.
For more than a century that is exactly what our Boy Scouts have been. Last year you gave more than 15 million hours of service to helping people in your communities. Incredible. That's an incredible stat.
All of you here tonight will contribute more than 100,000 hours of service by the end of this Jamboree -- 100,000.
When natural disaster strikes, when people face hardship, when the beauty and glory of our outdoor spaces must be restored and taken care of, America turns to the Boy Scouts because we know that the Boy Scouts never ever, ever let us down.
Just like you know you can count on me, we know we can count on you, because we know the values that you live by.
Your values are the same values that have always kept America strong, proud and free.
And by the way, do you see the billions and billions and billions of additional money that we're putting back into our military? Billions of dollars.
New planes, new ships, great equipment for our people that are so great to us. We love our vets. We love our soldiers. And we love our police, by the way.
Firemen, police. We love our police. Those are all special people. Uniformed services.
Two days ago I traveled to Norfolk, Virginia to commission an American aircraft carrier into the fleet of the United States Navy.
It's the newest, largest and most advanced aircraft carrier anywhere in the world, and it's named for an Eagle Scout -- the USS Gerald R. Ford.
Everywhere it sails that great Scout's name will be feared and revered, because that ship will be a symbol of American power, prestige and strength.
Our nation honors President Gerald R. Ford today because he lived his life the scouting way. Boy Scouts celebrate American patriots, especially the brave members of our Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you.
American hearts are warmed every year when we read about Boy Scouts placing thousands and thousands of flags next to veterans' grave sites all across the country. By honoring our heroes, you help to ensure that their memory never, ever dies. You should take great pride in the example you set for every citizen of our country to follow.
Generations of American Boy Scouts have sworn the same oath and lived according to the same law. You inherit a noble American tradition. And as you embark on your lives, never cease to be proud of you who you are and the principles you hold dear and stand by. Wear your values as your badge of honor. What you've done few have done before you. What you've done is incredible. What you've done is admired by all. So I want to congratulate you, Boy Scouts.
Let your scouting oath guide your path from this day forward. Remember your duty, honor your history, take care of the people God put into your life, and love and cherish your great country.
You are very special people. You're special in the lives of America. You're special to me. But if you do what we say, I promise you that you will live scouting's adventure every single day of your life, and you will win, win, win, and help people in doing so.
Your lives will have meaning, and purpose and joy. You will become leaders, and you will inspire others to achieve the dreams they once thought were totally impossible. Things that you said could never, ever happen are already happening for you. And if you do these things, and if you refuse to give in to doubt or to fear, then you will help to make America great again, you will be proud of yourself, be proud of the uniform you wear, and be proud of the country you love.
And never, ever forget, America is proud of you.
This is a very, very special occasion for me. I've known so many Scouts over the years. Winners. I've known so many great people. They've been taught so well, and they love the heritage. But this is very special for me.
And I just want to end by saying, very importantly, God bless you. God bless the Boy Scouts. God Bless the United States of America. Go out, have a great time in life, compete, and go out and show me that there is nobody, nobody like a Boy Scout.
Thank you very much, everybody.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you very much
Thank you, Chris, for that kind introduction and for your tremendous work on behalf of our Second Amendment.  Thank you very much.  I want to also thank Wayne LaPierre for his unflinching leadership in the fight for freedom. Wayne, thank you very much. Great.
I'd also like to congratulate Karen Handel on her incredible fight in Georgia 6.  The election takes place on June 20th. And, by the way, on primaries, let's not have 11 Republicans running for the same position, okay? It's too nerve-shattering.  She's totally for the NRA and she's totally for the Second Amendment.  So get out and vote. She's running against someone who's going to raise your taxes to the sky, destroy your healthcare, and he's for open borderslots of crime, and he's not even able to vote in the district that he's running in. Other than that, I think he's doing a fantastic job, right?  So get out and vote for Karen.
Also, my friendhe's become a friend, because there's nobody that does it like Lee Greenwood.  Wow.  Lee's anthem is the perfect description of the renewed spirit sweeping across our country.  And it really is, indeed, sweeping across our country.  So, Lee, I know I speak for everyone in this arena when I say, we are all very proud indeed to be an American.  Thank you very much, Lee.
No one was more proud to be American than the beloved patriotand you know who I'm talking aboutwe remember on gatherings like today, your former five-term President, the late Charlton Heston.  How good was Charlton?  And I remember Charlton, he was out there fighting when maybe a lot of people didn't want to be fighting.  He was out there for a long time.  He was a great guy.
And it's truly wonderful to be back in Atlanta, and back with my friends at the NRA.  You are my friends, believe me.  Perhaps some of you remember the last time we were all together.  Remember that?  We had a big crowd then, too.  So we knew something was happening.  But it was in the middle of a historic political year, and in the middle of a truly historic election.  What fun that wasNovember 8.  Wasn't that a great evening?  Do you remember that evening?  Remember that?
Remember they were saying, "We have breaking news: Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan."  They go, "Michigan?  How did that""Donald Trump has won the state of Wisconsin, whoa."  But earlier in the evening, remember, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, all the way upwe ran up the East Coast.  And, you know, the Republicans have a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College, you know that.  Tremendous disadvantage.  And to run the whole East Coast, and then you go with Iowa and Ohio, and all of the different states.  It was a great evening, one that a lot people will never forgeta lot of people.  Not going to forget that evening.
And remember they said, There is no path to 270.  For months I was hearing that.  You know, they're trying to suppress the vote.  So they keep saying it, so people say, you know, I really like Trump, he loves the Second Amendment, he loves the NRA; I love him, but let's go to the movie because he can't win.  Because they're trying to suppress the vote.
But they'd sayI mean, hundreds of times I heard, there is nothere's no route.  They'd say it, There is no route to 270.  And we ended up with 306.  So they were right:  Not 270, 306.  That was some evening.  Big sports fans said that was the single-most exciting event they've ever seen.  That includes Super Bowls and World Series and boxing matches.  That was an exciting evening for all of us, and it meant a lot.
Only one candidate in the General Election came to speak to you, and that candidate is now the President of the United States, standing before you again.  I have a feeling that in the next election you're going to be swamped with candidates, but you're not going to be wasting your time.  You'll have plenty of those Democrats coming over and you're going to say, no, sir, no thank you -- no, ma'am.  Perhaps ma'am.  It may be Pocahontas, remember that.  And she is not big for the NRA, that I can tell you.
But you came through for me, and I am going to come through for you.  I was proud to receive the NRA's earliest endorsement in the history of the organization.  And today, I am also proud to be the first sitting President to address the NRA Leadership Forum since our wonderful Ronald Reagan in 1983.  And I want to thank each and every one of you not only for your help electing true friends of the Second Amendment, but for everything you do to defend our flag and our freedom.
With your activism, you helped to safeguard the freedoms of our soldiers who have bled and died for us on the battlefields.  And I know we have many veterans in the audience today, and we want to give them a big, big beautiful round of applause.
And, like I promised, we are doing a really top job already99 daysbut already with the Veterans Administration, people are seeing a big difference.  We are working really hard at the VA, and you're going to see it, and you're already seeing it.  And it's my honor.  I've been telling you we're going to do it, and we're doing it.  Thank you.
The NRA protects in our capitols and legislative houses the freedoms that our servicemembers have won for us on those incredible battlefields.  And it's been a tough fight against those who would go so far as to ban private gun ownership entirely.   But I am here to deliver you good news.  And I can tell you that Wayne and Chris have been fighting with me long and hard to make sure that we were with you today, not somebody else with an empty podium.  Because believe me, the podium would have been empty.  They fought long and hard, and I think you folks cannot thank them enough.  They were with us all the way, right from the beginning.
But we have news that you've been waiting for for a long time:  The eight-year assault on your Second Amendment freedoms has come to a crashing end.  You have a true friend and champion in the White House.  No longer will federal agencies be coming after law-abiding gun owners.     No longer will the government be trying to undermine your rights and your freedoms as Americans.  Instead, we will work with you, by your side.  We will work with the NRA to promote responsible gun ownership, to protect our wonderful hunters and their access to the very beautiful outdoors.  You met my sonI can tell you, both sons, they love the outdoors.  Frankly, I think they love the outdoors more than they love, by a long shot, Fifth Avenue.  But that's okay.  And we want to ensure you of the sacred right of self-defense for all of our citizens.
When I spoke to this forum last year, our nation was still mourning the loss of a giant, a great defender of the Constitution:  Justice Antonin Scalia.     I promised that if elected, I would nominate a justice who would be faithful and loyal to the Constitution.  I even went one step further and publicly presented a list of 20 judges from which I would make my selection, and that's exactly what we did.
And, by the way, I want to thank, really, Heritage.  And I want to thank also all of the people that worked with us.  Where's Leo?  Is Leo around here?  Where is he?  He's got to be here.  Where is he?  He has been so good.  And also from Heritage, Jim DeMint.  It's been amazing.  I mean, those people have been fantastic.  They've been real friends.     The Federalist peoplewhere are they?  Are they around here someplace?  They really helped us out.
I kept my promise, and now, with your help, our brand-new Justiceand he is really something very specialNeil Gorsuch, sits on the bench of the United States Supreme Court.     For the first time in the modern political era, we have confirmed a new justice in the first 100 days.     The last time that happened was 136 years ago, in 1881.  Now, we won't get any credit for this, but don't worry about it, the credit is in the audience, right?  The credit is in the audience.     All of those people.  They won't give us credit, but it's been a long time, and we're very honored.
We've also taken action to stand up for America's sportsmen.  On their very last full day in office, the previous administration issued an 11th-hour rule to restrict the use of lead ammunition on certain federal lands.  Have you heard about that, folks?  I'm shocked to hear that.  You've all heard about that.  You've heard about that.  On his first day as Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke eliminated the previous administration's ammunition ban.     He's going to be great.  Ryan is going to be great.
We've also moved very quickly to restore something gun owners care about very, very much.  It's called the rule of law.     We have made clear that our administration will always stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.     In fact, countless members of law enforcement are also members of the NRA, because our police know that responsible gun ownership saves lives, and that the right of self-defense is essential to public safety.  Do we all agree with that?
Our police and sheriffs also know that when you ban guns, only the criminals will be armed.     For too long, Washington has gone after law-abiding gun owners while making life easier for criminals, drug dealers, traffickers and gang members.  MS-13you know about MS-13?  It's not pleasant for them anymore, folks.  It's not pleasant for them anymore.  That's a bad group.     Not pleasant for MS-13.  Get them the hell out of here, right?  Get them out.
We are protecting the freedoms of law-abiding Americans, and we are going after the criminal gangs and cartels that prey on our innocent citizens.  And we are really going after them.
As members of the NRA know well, some of the most important decisions a President can make are appointmentsand I've appointed people who believe in law, order, and justice.
That is why I have selected as your Attorney General, number one, a really fine person, a really good man, a man who has spent his career fighting crime, supporting the police, and defending the Second Amendment.  For the first time in a long time, you now have a pro-Second-Amendment, tough-on-crime Attorney General, and his name is Jeff Sessions.
And Attorney General Sessions is putting our priorities into action.  He's going after the drug dealers who are peddling their poison all over our streets and destroying our youth.  He's going after the gang members who threaten our children.  And he's fully enforcing our immigration laws in all 50 states.  And you know what?  It's about time.
Heading up the effort to secure America's borders is a great military general, a man of action:  Homeland Security Director [sic], John Kelly.
Secretary Kelly, who used to be General Kelly, is following through on my pledge to protect the borders, remove criminal aliens, and stop the drugs from pouring into our country.  We've already seen -- listen to this; it never happened before, people can't even believe it.  And, by the way, we will build the wall no matter how low this number gets or how this goes.  Don't even think about it.  Don't even think about it.
You know, they're trying to use this number against us because we've done so unbelievably at the borders already.  They're trying to use it against us.  But you need that wall to stop the human trafficking, to stop the drugs, to stop the wrong people.  You need the wall.  But listen to this:  We've already seen a 73 percent decrease -- never happened before -- in illegal immigration on the southern border since my election -- 73 percent.
You see what they're doing, right?  So why do you need a wall?  We need a wall.
